Introduction
On September 21st, 1931, the representative of the Chinese Government at Geneva wrote to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations asking  him to bring to the attention of the Council the dispute between China and Japan which had arisen from the events which took place at Mukden on the night of September 18th-19th, and appealed to the Council, under Article 11 of the Covenant, to “ take immediate steps to prevent the further development of a situation endangering the peace of nations ".
On September 30th, the Council passed the following resolution:
“The Council:
(1) Notes the replies of the Chinese and Japanese Governments to the urgent appeal addressed to them by its President and the steps that have already been taken in response to that appeal ;
“(2) Recognises the importance of the Japanese Government's statement that it has no territorial designs in Manchuria ;
“(3) Notes the Japanese representative's statement that his Government will continue, as rapidly as possible, the withdrawal of its troops, which has already been begun, into the railway zone in proportion as the safety of the lives and property of Japanese nationals is effectively assured and that it hopes to carry out this intention in full as speedily as may be;
“(4) Notes the Chinese representative's statement that his Government will assume responsibility for the safety of the lives and property of Japanese nationals outside that zone as the withdrawal of the Japanese troops continues and the Chinese local authorities and police forces are re-established;
“(5) Being convinced that both Governments are anxious to avoid taking any action which might disturb the peace and good understanding between the two nations, notes that the Chinese and Japanese representatives have given assurances that their respective Governments will take all necessary steps to prevent any extension of the scope of the incident or any aggravation of the situation;
“(6) Requests both Parties to do all in their power to hasten the restoration of normal relations between them and for that purpose to continue and speedily complete the execution of the above-mentioned undertakings;
“(7) Requests both Parties to furnish the Council at frequent intervals with full information as to the development of the situation;
“(8) Decides, in the absence of any unforeseen occurrence which might render an immediate meeting essential, to meet again at Geneva on Wednesday, October 14th,1931, to consider the situation as it then stands;
“(9) Authorises its President to cancel the meeting of the Council fixed for October 14th, should he decide, after consulting his colleagues, and more particularly the representatives of the two Parties, that, in view of such information as he may have received from the Parties or from other Members of the Council as to the development of the93situation, the meeting is no longer necessary.
In the course of the discussions that preceded the adoption of this resolution, the Chinese representative expressed the view of his Government that “the best method that may be devised by the Council for securing the prompt and complete withdrawal of the Japanese troops and police and the full re-establishment of the status quo ante is the sending of a neutral commission to Manchuria”
The Council held a further session for the consideration of the dispute from October 13th to the 24th. In consequence of the opposition of the Japanese representative, unanimity could not be obtained for the resolution proposed at this session.
The Council met again on November 16th in Paris and devoted nearly four weeks to a study of the situation. On November 21st, the Japanese representative, after stating that his Government was anxious that the resolution of September 30th should be observed in the spirit and letter, proposed that a Commission of Enquiry should be sent to the spot. This proposal was subsequently welcomed by all the other Members of the Council and, on December 10th, 1931, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:
“The Council:
“(1) Reaffirms the resolution passed unanimously by it on September 30th, 1931, by which the two Parties declare that they are solemnly bound ; it therefore calls upon the Chinese and Japanese Governments to take all steps necessary to assure its execution so that the withdrawal of the Japanese troops within the railway zone may be effected as speedily as possible under the conditions set forth in the said resolution;
“(2) Considering that events have assumed an even more serious aspect since the Council meeting of October 24th, notes that the two Parties undertake to adopt all measures necessary to avoid any further aggravation of the situation and to refrain from any initiative which may lead to further fighting and loss of life;
“(3) Invites the two Parties to continue to keep the Council informed as to the development of the situation;
“(4) Invites the other Members of the Council to furnish the Council with any information received from their representatives on the spot;
“(5) Without prejudice to the "carrying out of the above-mentioned measures;
“Desiring, in view of the special circumstances of the case, to con-tribute towards a final and fundamental solution by the two Governments of the questions at issue between them:
“Decides to appoint a Commission of five members to study on the spot and to report to the Council on any circumstance which, affecting international relations, threatens to disturb peace between China and Japan, or the good understanding between them upon which peace depends;
“The Governments of China and of Japan will each have the right to nominate one Assessor to assist the Commission;
“The two Governments will afford the Commission all facilities to obtain on the spot whatever information it may require;
“It is understood that, should the two Parties initiate any negotiations, these would not fall within the scope of the terms of reference of the Commission, nor would it be within the competence of the Com-mission to interfere with the military arrangements of either Party;    
“The appointment and deliberation of the Commission shall not prejudice in any way the undertaking given by the Japanese Government in the resolution of September 3Oth as regards the withdrawal of the Japanese troops within the railway zone;
“(6) Between now and its next ordinary session, which will be held on January 25th, 1932, the Council, which remains seized of the matter, invites its President to follow the question and to summon it afresh if necessary.”
In introducing this resolution, the President, M. Briand, made the following declaration:
“It will be observed that the resolution which is before you provides for action on two separate lines: (1) to put an end to the immediate threat to peace;(2) to facilitate the final solution of existing causes of dispute between the two countries. The Council was glad to find during its present sittings that an enquiry into the circumstances which tend to disturb the relations between China and Japan, in itself desirable, would be acceptable to the Parties. The Council therefore welcomed the proposal to establish a Commission which was brought before it on November 21st. The final paragraph of the resolution provides for the appointment and functioning of such a Commission.
“I shall now make certain comments on the resolution, paragraph by paragraph.
“Paragraph 1.--This paragraph reaffirms the resolution unanimously adopted by the Council on September 30th, laying particular stress on the withdrawal of the Japanese troops within the railway zone on the conditions described therein as speedily as possible.… The Council attaches the utmost importance to this resolution and is persuaded that the two Governments will set themselves to the complete fulfilment of the engagements which they assumed on September 30th.
“Paragraph 2.--It is an unfortunate fact that, since the last meeting of the Council, events have occurred which have seriously aggravated the situation and have given rise to legitimate apprehension. It is indispensable and urgent to abstain from any initiative which may lead to further fighting, and from all other action likely to aggravate the situation.
“Paragraph 4.--Under paragraph 4, the Members of the Council other than the Parties are requested to continue to furnish the Council with information received from their representatives on the spot. Such information having proved of high value in the past, the Powers which have the possibility of sending such representatives to various localities have agreed to do all that is possible to continue and improve the present system.
“For this purpose, these Powers will keep in touch with the two Parties, so that the latter may, should they so desire, indicate to them the localities to which they would desire the despatch of such representatives.
“Paragraph 5 provides for the institution of a Commission of Enquiry. Subject to its purely advisory character, the terms of reference of the Commission are wide. In principle, no question which it feels called upon to study will be excluded, provided that the question relates to any circumstances which, affecting international relations, threaten to disturb peace between China and Japan, or the good understanding between them upon which peace depends. Each of the two Governments will have the right to request the Commission to consider any question the examination of which it particularly desires. The Commission will have full discretion to determine the questions upon which it will report to the Council, and will have power to make interim reports when desirable.
“If the undertakings given by the two Parties according to the resolution of September 30th have not been carried out by the time of the arrival of the Commission, the Commission should as speedily as possible report to the Council on the situation.
“It is specially provided that, 'should the two Parties initiate any negotiations, these would not fall within the scope of the terms of reference of the Commission, nor would it be within the competence of the Commission to interfere with the military arrangements of either Party’. This latter provision does not limit in any way its faculty of investigation. It is also clear that the Commission will enjoy full liberty of movement in order to obtain the information it may require for its reports.”
The Japanese representative, in accepting the resolution, made a reservation concerning paragraph 2 of the resolution, stating that he accepted it on behalf of his Government,“ on the understanding that this paragraph was not intended to preclude the Japanese forces from taking such action as might be rendered necessary to provide directly for the protection of the lives and property of Japanese subjects against the activities of bandits and lawless elements rampant in various parts of Manchuria ”.
The Chinese representative, on his part, accepted the resolution, but asked that certain of his observations and reservations on points of principle should be placed on record as follows:
“I. China must and does fully reserve any and all rights, remedies and juridical positions to which she is or may be entitled under and by virtue of all the provisions of the Covenant, under all the existing treaties to which China is a party, and under the accepted principles of international law and practice.
“II. The present arrangement evidenced by the resolution and the statement made by the President of the Council is regarded by China as a practical measure embodying four essential and interdependent elements;
“(a) Immediate cessation of hostilities;
“(b) Liquidation of the Japanese occupation of Manchuria within the shortest possible period of time;
“(c) Neutral observation and reporting upon all developments from now on;
“(d) A comprehensive enquiry into the entire Manchurian situation on the spot by a Commission appointed by the Council.
“The said arrangement being in effect and in spirit predicated upon these fundamental factors, its integrity would be manifestly destroyed by the failure of any one of them to materialise and be effectively realised as contemplated.
“Ill, China understands and expects that the Commission provided for in the resolution will make it its first duty to enquire into and report, with its recommendations, on the withdrawal of the Japanese forces, if such withdrawal has not been completed when the Commission arrives on the spot.
“IV, China assumes that the said arrangement neither directly nor by implication affects the question of reparations and damages to China and her nationals growing out of the recent events in Manchuria, and makes a specific reservation in that respect.
“V, In accepting the resolution laid before us, China appreciates the efforts of the Council to prevent further fighting and bloodshed by enjoining both China and Japan to avoid any initiative which may lead to further fighting or any other action likely to aggravate the situation, It must be clearly pointed out that this injunction should not be violated under the pretext of the existence of lawlessness caused by a state of affairs which it is the very purpose of the resolution to do away with. It is to be observed that much of the lawlessness now prevalent in Manchuria is due to the interruption of normal life caused by the invasion of the Japanese forces. The only sure way of restoring the normal peaceful life is to hasten the withdrawal of the Japanese troops and allow the Chinese authorities to assume the responsibility for the maintenance of peace and order. China cannot tolerate the invasion and occupation of her territory by the troops of any foreign country; far less can she permit these troops to usurp the police functions of the Chinese authorities.
“VI. China notes with satisfaction the purpose to continue and the present system of neutral observation and reporting improve through representatives of other Powers, and China will from time to time, as occasion requires, indicate the localities to which it seems desirable to despatch such representatives.
“VIl. It should be understood that, in agreeing to this resolution which provides for the withdrawal of the Japanese forces to the railway zone, China in no way recedes from the position she has always taken with respect to the maintenance of military forces in the said railway zone.
“VIIl. China would regard any attempt by Japan to bring about complications of a political character affecting China's territorial or administrative integrity (such as promoting so-called independence movements or utilising disorderly elements for such purposes) as an obvious violation of the undertaking to avoid any further aggravation of the situation.
  The Members of the Commission were subsequently selected by the President of the Council, and, after the approval of the two parties had been obtained, the membership was finally approved by the Council on January 14th,1932, as follows:
H.E. Count ALDROVANDI (Italian),
Général de Division Henri CLAUDEL (French),
The Rt. Hon. The EARL OF LTTON, P.C, G.C.S.I., G.C.I.E.(British),
Major-General Frank Ross McCoy (American),
H.E. Dr. Heinrich Schnee (German).
The European members, with a representative of the American member, held two sittings in Geneva on January 2lst, at which Lord Lytton was unanimously elected Chairman and a provisional programme of work was approved, The Governments of Japan and China, each of which had, by virtue of the resolution of December 10th, “ the right to nominate, subsequently appointed as their one Assessor to assist the Commission Assessors HE, Mr, Isaburo Yoshida, Ambassador of Japan in Turkey. and H.E, Dr. Wellington Koo, a former Prime Minister and former Minister for Foreign Affairs of China.
The Secretary-General of the League designated M. Robert Haas, Director in the Secretariat of the League, to act as Secretary-General of the Commission. 
The European members of the Commission sailed from Le Havreand Plymouth on February 3rd, and were joined by the American member at New York on February 9th.
Meanwhile, the development of the situation in the Far East caused the Chinese Government, on January 29th, to submit a further appeal to the League of Nations under Articles 10, 11 and 15 of the Covenant. On February 12th, 1932, the Chinese representative requested the Council to submit the dispute to the Assembly in accordance with paragraph 9of Article 15 of the Covenant, Since no further instructions were received from the Council, the Commission continued to interpret its mandate according to the resolution of the Council of December 10th. This included:
(1) An examination of the issues between China and Japan, which were referred to the Council, including their causes, development and status at the time of the enquiry;
(2)A consideration of a possible solution of the Sino-Japanese dispute which would reconcile the fundamental interests of the two countries.
  This conception of its mission determined the programme of its work.
Before reaching Manchuria, the main theatre of the conflict, contact was established with the Governments of Japan and China and with representatives of various shades of opinion, in order to ascertain the nature of the interests of the two countries, The Commission arrived in Tokyo on February 29th, where it was joined by the Japanese Assessor. It had the honour of being received by His Majesty the Emperor. Eight days were spent in Tokyo, and daily conferences were held with members of the Government and others, including the Prime Minister, Mr. IukAl, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr.Yoshizawa, the Minister of War, Lieutenant-General Araki, the Minister of Navy, Admiral Osumi. Interviews were also held with leading bankers, business-men, representatives of various organisations and others. From all of these we received information regarding the rights and interests of Japan in Manchuria and her historical associations with that country. The Shanghai situation was also discussed. After leaving Tokyo, we learned while in Kyoto of the establishment of a new “State’’ in Manchuria, under the name of “Manchukuo”(the Manchu State). In Osaka, conferences were arranged with representatives of the business community.
The Commission reached Shanghai on March 14th and was joined there by the Chinese Assessor. Here a fortnight was occupied, in addition to our general enquiry, in learning as much as possible about the facts of the recent fighting and the possibility of an armistice, which we had previously discussed with Mr. Yoshizawa, in Tokyo. We paid a visit to the devastated areas, and heard statements from the Japanese naval and military authorities regarding recent operations. We also interviewed some of the members of the Chinese Government and leaders of business, educational and other circles, including Canton. On March 26th, the Commission proceeded to Nanking, some of its members visiting Hangchow on the way. During the following week, it had the honour of being received by the President of the National Government, Interviews were held with Mr. Wang Ching-wei, President of the Executive Yuan; General Chang Kai-shek, Chairman of the Military Council ; Dr. Lo Wen-kan, Minister for Foreign Affairs ; Mr. T. V. Soong, Minister of Finance ; General Cheng Ming-chu, Minister of Communications; Mr. Chu Cha-hua, Minister of Education ; and other members of the Government.
  In order to acquaint ourselves more fully with representative opinion and with conditions existing in various parts of China, we proceeded on April 1st to Hankow, stopping en roule at Kiukiang, Some representatives of the Commission visited Ichang, Wanhsien and Chungking in the province of Hupeh and Szechuan.
On April 9th, the Commission arrived at Peiping (as Peking is now called, where several conferences were held with Marshal CHANG HSUEH-LANG and with officials who had been members of the administration in Manchuria until September 18th. Evidence was also given by the Chinese Generals who had been in command of the troops at the barracks at Mukdenon the night of September 18th.
Our stay in Peiping was prolonged owing to a difficulty which arose regarding the entry into Manchuria of Dr. Wellington Koo, the Chinese Assessor.
In proceeding to Manchuria, the Commission divided into two groups, some of the party travelling to Mukden by rail via Shanhaikwan, and there mainder, including Dr. Koo, by sea via Dairen, thus remaining within the Japanese railway area. The objection to Dr. Koo's entry into “Manchukuo ’' territory was finally withdrawn after the arrival of the Commission in Changchun, the northern terminus of the Japanese railway area. We remained in Manchuria for about six weeks, visiting Mukden, Changchun, Kirin, Harbin, Dairen, Port Arthur, Anshan, Fushun and Chinchow. We had intended to visit Tsitsihar as well, but, while we were in Harbin, there was continuous fighting in the surrounding districts, and the Japanese military authorities stated that they were unable at that moment to guarantee the safety of the Commission by rail on the western branch of the Chinese Eastern Railway. Accordingly, some members of our staff visited Tsitsihar by air. From there they travelled by the Taonan-Angangchi and Ssupingkai-Taonan Railways and rejoined the main body in Mukden. 
During our stay in Manchuria we wrote a Preliminary Report, which we despatched to Geneva on April 29th. 
We had numerous conferences with Lieutenant-General Honjo, Commander of the Kwantung Army, other military officers, and Japanese consular officials. At Changchun we visited the Chief Executive of “Manchukuo ", the former Emperor, Hsuan Tung, now known by his personal name of Henry Pu-Yi, We also had interviews with members of the “Manchukuo " Government, including officials and advisers of Japanese nationality, and Governors of Provinces. Delegations were received from the local population, most of which were presented by the Japanese or “Manchukuo” authorities. In addition to our public meetings, we were able to arrange interviews with a great number of individuals, both Chinese and foreign.
The Commission returned to Peiping on June 5th, where an analysis of the voluminous documentary material collected was begun. Two more conferences were also held with Mr, WANG CHING-WEl, President of the Executive Yuan; Dr. Lo WEN-KAN, Minister for Foreign Affairs; and Mr.T.V. Soong, Minister of Finance.
On June 28th the Commission proceeded to Tokyo via Chosen (Korea). Its departure for Japan was delayed by the fact that no Foreign Minister had yet been appointed in the Cabinet of Admiral Viscount Saito. After their arrival in Tokyo on July 4th, conferences were held with leaders of the new Government, including the Prime Minister, Admiral Viscount Saito; the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Count Uchida ; and the Minister of War, Lieutenant-General Araki, From these we learned the present views and policy of the Government regarding the development of the situation in Manchuria and Sino-Japanese relations.   
Having thus renewed contact with both the Chinese and the Japanese Governments, the Commission returned to Peiping, where the drafting of the Report was undertaken.
The two Assessors, who throughout spared no effort to assist the work of the Commission, presented a great amount of valuable documentary evidence. The material received from each Assessor was shown to the other, and an opportunity given for subsequent comment. These documents will be published.
The large number of persons and organisations interviewed, as listed in the Appendix, will illustrate the amount of evidence examined. Further, in the course of our travels, we have been presented with a great quantity of printed pamphlets, petitions, appeals, and letters. In Manchuria alone, we received approximately 1,550 letters in Chinese and 400 letters in Russian, without mentioning those written in English, French or Japanese.
The arrangement, translation and study of these documents involved a considerable labour, which was carried out in spite of our continual movement from place to place. It was finally completed on our return to Peiping in July and before our last visit to Japan. The Commission's conception of its mission, which determined the programme of its work and itinerary, has equally guided the plan of its Report.
First, we have tried to provide an historical background by describing the rights and interests of the two countries in Manchuria, which provide the fundamental causes of the dispute; the more recent specific issues which immediately preceded the actual outbreak were then examined, and the course of events since September 18th, 1931, described. Throughout this review of the issues, we have insisted less on the responsibility for past actions than on the necessity of finding means to avoid their repetition in the future.
Finally, the Report concludes with some reflections and considerations which we have desired to submit to the Council upon the various issues with which it is confronted, and with some suggestions on the lines on which it seemed to us possible to effect a durable solution of the conflict and the re-establishment of a good understanding between China and Japan.
译文：
序言
1931年9月21日，中国驻日内瓦代表致函国际联盟秘书长，提请理事会关注因9月18日至19日夜间沈阳事件引发的中日争端，并依据《国际联盟盟约》第十一条，呼吁理事会“立即采取措施，阻止危及各国和平的局势进一步发展”。
9月30日，理事会通过如下决议：
“理事会：
（1）注意到中日两国政府对理事会主席紧急呼吁的答复，以及为响应该呼吁已采取的各项措施；
（2）认可日本政府关于其在满洲无领土野心的声明的重要性；
（3）注意到日本代表的声明，即日本政府将在日本侨民生命财产安全得到有效保障的前提下，继续尽快将已开始撤退的军队撤至铁路区内，并希望尽快全面落实此意图；
（4）注意到中国代表的声明，即随着日本军队的逐步撤退及中国地方当局与警察部队的重建，中国政府将对铁路区外日本侨民的生命财产安全承担责任；
（5）深信两国政府均愿避免采取任何可能破坏两国和平与友好关系的行动，注意到中日代表已作出保证，各自政府将采取一切必要措施，防止事件范围扩大或局势恶化；
（6）要求双方尽一切努力，加快恢复两国正常关系，并为此继续推进且迅速完成上述承诺的执行；
（7）要求双方定期向理事会全面通报局势发展情况；
（8）决定，除非发生任何不可预见的紧急情况需立即召开会议，否则将于1931年10月14日（星期三）在日内瓦再次举行会议，审议届时的局势；
（9）授权理事会主席，在与同僚（尤其是双方代表）协商后，如根据从双方或理事会其他成员国收到的局势发展信息，认为10月14日的会议已无必要，可取消该会议。”
在通过本决议的前期讨论中，中国代表阐述了其政府的立场：“理事会为确保日本军队及警察迅速、全面撤退并完全恢复原状，所能制定的最佳方案是向满洲派遣一个中立委员会。”
理事会于10月13日至24日再次召开会议审议该争端。由于日本代表的反对，本次会议提出的决议未能达成一致意见。
理事会于11月16日在巴黎再次召开会议，耗时近四周研究局势。11月21日，日本代表在声明其政府愿严格遵守9月30日决议的精神与文字后，提议派遣一个调查委员会前往现场。该提议随后得到理事会所有其他成员国的欢迎，并于1931年12月10日一致通过如下决议：
“理事会：
（1）重申1931年9月30日一致通过的决议，双方声明对此负有庄严义务；因此呼吁中日两国政府采取一切必要措施确保该决议的执行，使日本军队能按照上述决议规定的条件尽快撤至铁路区内；
（2）鉴于自10月24日理事会会议以来，局势已变得更为严重，注意到双方承诺采取一切必要措施，避免局势进一步恶化，并克制采取任何可能导致更多战斗和人员伤亡的主动行动；
（3）邀请双方继续向理事会通报局势发展情况；
（4）邀请理事会其他成员国向理事会提供从其驻当地代表处收到的任何信息；
（5）在不妨碍上述措施执行的前提下；
“鉴于本案的特殊情况，为促成两国政府最终、根本地解决彼此间的争议问题：
“决定任命一个由五名成员组成的委员会，在现场调查并向理事会报告任何影响国际关系、可能危及中日和平或两国间和平所依赖的友好关系的情况；
“中日两国政府各有权提名一名顾问协助该委员会；
“两国政府将为委员会提供一切便利，使其能在现场获取所需的任何信息；
“双方理解，若两国启动任何谈判，均不属于该委员会的职权范围，委员会也无权干涉任何一方的军事部署；
“委员会的任命及审议工作不得以任何方式损害日本政府在9月30日决议中作出的关于将军队撤至铁路区内的承诺；
（6）自即日起至1932年1月25日举行下一次常会期间，理事会将继续处理此案，并邀请主席关注相关问题，必要时重新召集理事会会议。”
在介绍本决议时，理事会主席白里安先生（M. Briand）发表如下声明：
“诸位将注意到，摆在大家面前的决议包含两个方面的行动：（1）消除当前对和平的直接威胁；（2）为最终解决两国间现存的争端根源提供便利。理事会在本次会议期间欣慰地发现，对可能扰乱中日关系的情况进行调查本身是可取的，且得到了双方的认可。因此，理事会对11月21日提交的设立委员会的提议表示欢迎。决议的最后一段对该委员会的任命及运作作出了规定。
“现将对决议逐段作出若干说明：
“第1段——本段重申理事会于9月30日一致通过的决议，特别强调日本军队应按照决议所述条件尽快撤至铁路区内……理事会高度重视该决议，并相信两国政府将致力于全面履行其在9月30日作出的承诺。
“第2段——不幸的是，自理事会上次会议以来，发生了严重恶化局势并引发合理担忧的事件。当务之急是避免采取任何可能导致更多战斗的主动行动，以及所有其他可能加剧局势的行为。
“第4段——根据第4段的规定，要求理事会中除双方外的其他成员国继续向理事会提供从其驻当地代表处收到的信息。此类信息在过去已被证明具有重要价值，有能力向各地派遣此类代表的国家已同意尽一切可能继续并完善现行制度。
“为此，这些国家将与双方保持联系，以便双方如有意向，可向其指明希望派遣此类代表前往的地区。
“第5段规定设立一个调查委员会。该委员会纯属咨询性质，其职权范围广泛。原则上，只要与任何影响国际关系、可能危及中日和平或两国间和平所依赖的友好关系的情况相关，委员会认为有必要研究的任何问题均不排除在外。两国政府均有权要求委员会审议其特别希望研究的任何问题。委员会将全权决定向理事会报告的议题，并有权在必要时提交临时报告。
“若委员会抵达时，双方根据9月30日决议作出的承诺尚未履行，委员会应尽快向理事会报告局势。
“决议特别规定，‘若两国启动任何谈判，均不属于该委员会的职权范围，委员会也无权干涉任何一方的军事部署’。后一项规定绝不限制其调查权。显然，委员会将享有充分的行动自由，以获取报告所需的信息。”
日本代表在接受该决议时，对决议第2段提出保留，称其代表本国政府接受该段内容，“但理解该段无意阻止日本军队采取为直接保护日本臣民生命财产免受满洲各地猖獗的土匪及不法分子侵害而可能必要的行动”。
中国代表则接受该决议，但要求将其在原则问题上的若干意见和保留记录如下：
“一、中国必须且明确保留其根据《国际联盟盟约》所有条款、中国加入的所有现行条约以及公认的国际法原则和惯例所享有的或可能享有的一切权利、补救办法和法律地位。
“二、中国认为，本决议及理事会主席声明所体现的现行安排是一项包含四个基本且相互依存要素的实际措施：
（a）立即停止敌对行动；
（b）在尽可能短的时间内结束日本对满洲的占领；
（c）对今后的所有事态发展进行中立观察并报告；
（d）由理事会任命的委员会在现场对整个满洲局势进行全面调查。
“上述安排在实质上和精神上均以这些基本要素为前提，若其中任何一项未能按预期实现和有效落实，该安排的完整性将遭到明显破坏。
“三、中国理解并期望，决议所规定的委员会若在抵达现场时日本军队尚未完全撤退，其首要职责应是调查日本军队的撤退情况，并附上建议向理事会报告。
“四、中国认为，上述安排既不直接也不间接影响中国及其国民因近期满洲事件而产生的赔偿和损害问题，并对此作出特别保留。
“五、中国在接受摆在面前的决议时，赞赏理事会通过责成中日双方避免采取任何可能导致更多战斗或其他可能加剧局势的主动行动，以防止进一步战斗和流血的努力。必须明确指出，不应以存在混乱状态为借口违反此项责成，而消除这种混乱状态正是该决议的宗旨所在。应当指出，满洲目前普遍存在的许多混乱局面，是由于日本军队入侵导致正常生活中断造成的。恢复正常和平生活的唯一可靠途径是加快日本军队的撤退，允许中国当局承担维护和平与秩序的责任。中国不能容忍任何外国军队入侵和占领其领土；更不能允许这些军队篡夺中国当局的警察职能。
“六、中国满意地注意到，将通过其他国家的代表继续并完善现行中立观察和报告制度，中国将根据需要，不时指明适宜派遣此类代表前往的地区。
“七、应当理解，中国同意这项规定日本军队撤至铁路区的决议，并不意味着其在维护上述铁路区内驻军问题上放弃一贯坚持的立场。
“八、中国认为，日本若企图制造影响中国领土或行政完整的政治性质的复杂局面（例如推动所谓的独立运动或利用不法分子达到此类目的），均属明显违反避免局势进一步恶化的承诺。”
委员会成员随后由理事会主席选定，并在征得双方同意后，于1932年1月14日经理事会最终批准，成员如下：
阿尔德罗万迪伯爵阁下（意大利）、
亨利·克洛德尔少将（法国）、
李顿伯爵阁下（英国，枢密院大臣、印度之星大十字勋章获得者、印度帝国大十字勋章获得者）、
弗兰克·罗斯·麦科伊少将（美国）、
海因里希·施内博士阁下（德国）。
欧洲成员与美国成员的一名代表于1月21日在日内瓦举行了两次会议，会上一致选举李顿伯爵为主席，并通过了临时工作计划。根据12月10日的决议，中日两国政府均“有权提名一名顾问协助委员会”，随后分别任命日本驻土耳其大使吉田伊三郎阁下和中国前总理、前外交部长顾维钧博士为各自的顾问。
国联秘书长指定国联秘书处主任罗贝尔·哈斯先生（M. Robert Haas）担任委员会秘书长。
委员会的欧洲成员于2月3日从勒阿弗尔和普利茅斯起航，美国成员于2月9日在纽约加入。
与此同时，远东局势的发展促使中国政府于1月29日根据《盟约》第10条、第11条和第15条再次向国际联盟提出申诉。1932年2月12日，中国代表请求理事会根据《盟约》第15条第9款将该争端提交大会审议。由于未收到理事会的进一步指示，委员会继续按照12月10日的理事会决议解释其任务授权。该授权包括：
（1）审查提交理事会的中日间争端，包括其起因、发展及调查时的现状；
（2）考虑一项可能使中日两国根本利益相协调的争端解决方案。
这一使命理念决定了其工作计划。
在抵达冲突的主要战区——满洲之前，委员会已与中日两国政府及持不同立场的各界代表建立联系，旨在厘清两国的利益性质。委员会于2月29日抵达东京，日本顾问随即在此加入。委员会有幸受到天皇陛下的接见。代表团在东京逗留八日，期间每日与日本政府官员及各界人士举行会谈，与会者包括首相犬养毅先生、外务大臣芳泽谦吉先生、陆军大臣荒木贞夫中将、海军大臣大角岑生海军大将。委员会还与金融界领袖、工商界人士及各类组织代表等进行了会晤。通过这些交流，委员会获取了关于日本在满洲的权益及其与该地区历史渊源的相关信息，双方还就上海局势展开了讨论。离开东京后，代表团在京都获悉满洲已成立一个名为“满洲国”（即“Manchu State”）的新“国家”。在大阪，委员会与当地工商界代表也安排了会谈。
3月14日，委员会抵达上海，中国顾问于当地加入。在沪期间的两周内，除开展常规调研外，委员会还尽可能搜集了近期战事的相关实情，并探讨了停战的可能性——此前在东京已与芳泽谦吉先生就此进行过讨论。代表团走访了受灾地区，并听取了日本海军和军事当局关于近期作战行动的说明。委员会还会见了部分中国政府官员及工商界、教育界等各界领袖（包括来自广州的代表）。3月26日，委员会前往南京，部分成员途中访问了杭州。在接下来的一周内，委员会有幸受到国民政府主席的接见，并与行政院院长汪精卫先生、军事委员会委员长蒋介石将军、外交部长罗文干博士、财政部长宋子文先生、交通部长陈铭枢将军、教育部长朱家骅先生及其他政府官员举行了会谈。
为更充分地了解代表性意见及中国各地的实际情况，委员会于4月1日前往汉口，途中在九江停留。委员会的部分代表还访问了湖北和四川的宜昌、万县及重庆。
4月9日，委员会抵达北平（原称北京），在当地与张学良元帅及9月18日前曾任满洲行政官员的人士举行了多次会谈。此外，9月18日夜间驻守沈阳军营的中国将领也提供了相关证词。
由于中国顾问顾维钧博士进入满洲的事宜出现波折，委员会在北平的逗留时间有所延长。
在前往满洲的途中，委员会分为两组：部分成员经山海关乘火车前往沈阳，其余成员（包括顾维钧博士）经大连乘船前往，全程处于日本铁路区内。在委员会抵达日本铁路区北端的长春后，对顾维钧博士进入“满洲国”领土的反对意见最终撤回。委员会在满洲停留约六周，访问了沈阳、长春、吉林、哈尔滨、大连、旅顺、鞍山、抚顺及锦州。委员会原本还计划访问齐齐哈尔，但在哈尔滨期间，周边地区战事持续不断，日本军事当局称当时无法保证委员会乘坐中东铁路西线列车的安全。因此，委员会的部分工作人员乘飞机前往齐齐哈尔，随后经洮南-安广线及四平街-洮南线铁路返回沈阳，与主力会合。
在满洲逗留期间，委员会撰写了一份初步报告，并于4月29日寄往日内瓦。
委员会与关东军司令官本庄繁中将、其他军官及日本领事官员举行了多次会谈。在长春，代表团会见了“满洲国”执政、前清皇帝宣统（现以其本名溥仪“Henry Pu-Yi”相称）。委员会还与“满洲国”政府成员（包括日本籍官员和顾问）及各省省长举行了会晤。接待了当地民众代表团，其中大部分由日本或“满洲国”当局安排。除公开会议外，委员会还安排会见了大量中外人士。
6月5日，委员会返回北平，开始对收集到的大量文献资料进行分析，并再次与行政院院长汪精卫先生、外交部长罗文干博士及财政部长宋子文先生举行了两次会谈。
6月28日，委员会经朝鲜前往东京。由于斋藤实海军子爵内阁尚未任命外相，委员会赴日行程有所延误。7月4日抵达东京后，委员会与新政府领导人举行了会谈，包括首相斋藤实海军子爵、外相内田康哉伯爵及陆军大臣荒木贞夫中将。通过这些会谈，委员会了解了日本政府对满洲局势发展及中日关系的当前看法和政策。
在与中日两国政府重新建立联系后，委员会返回北平，开始着手撰写报告。
两位顾问在整个过程中不遗余力地协助委员会的工作，提供了大量宝贵的文献证据。从每位顾问处收到的资料均已向另一方出示，并给予其后续发表评论的机会。这些文献将予以出版。
附录中列出的受访人士及组织名单，足以说明委员会审查的证据数量之多。此外，在行程中，委员会还收到了大量印刷手册、请愿书、申诉书及信件。仅在满洲一地，就收到了约1550封中文信件和400封俄文信件，尚未包括英文、法文或日文信件。
这些文献的整理、翻译和研究工作耗费了大量人力，尽管委员会不断辗转各地，仍完成了此项工作。该工作最终于7月返回北平后、最后一次访问日本前全部完成。委员会的使命理念既决定了其工作计划和行程安排，也同样指导了本报告的撰写框架。
首先，我们试图通过阐述两国在满洲的权益（这是争端的根本原因）来提供历史背景；随后分析了紧接实际冲突爆发前的近期具体问题，并描述了1931年9月18日以来的事态发展。在对这些问题的评述中，我们更强调的是寻找避免此类事件未来重演的方法，而非追究过去行动的责任。
最后，报告就理事会面临的各类问题提出了一些思考和考量，并就可能实现冲突持久解决及重建中日友好关系的方向给出了若干建议，谨提交理事会参考。