围绕伪满洲国事件的国联重大会议（1931-1933）
伪满洲国是日本1931年“九一八事变”后在中国东北炮制的傀儡政权，国际联盟（简称“国联”）作为当时主导全球秩序的国际组织，围绕该事件召开多次会议、通过多项决议，其时间线与事件发展紧密关联。
 一、1931年：事件爆发初期——国联首次介入与决议
1. 1931年9月21日：国联理事会首次讨论满洲问题
背景：9月18日日本发动“九一八事变”，迅速占领沈阳；9月21日中国驻国联代表施肇基正式向国联理事会提交申诉，要求国联主持公道，促使日本撤兵。
会议核心：中日代表在会上各执一词——日方辩称“中国军队挑起事端，且无法保护日侨”，中方则强调日本侵略事实。
结果：国联未直接定性，仅于9月22日通过“紧急警告决议”，要求中日双方“避免一切扩大事态、妨害和平解决的行为”，同时撤兵并保障两国人民生命财产安全，中日双方均公开表示赞同，但日本实际未停止军事行动。
2. 1931年9月30日：国联理事会通过首次撤兵决议；1931年10月24日：国联理事会通过第二次撤兵决议
3. 1931年12月10日：国联理事会决定派遣“李顿调查团”
1931年12月10日，国际联盟理事会通过设立调查委员会的决议，该委员会后被称作李顿委员会。此前，起草委员会已就李顿委员会的章程及职责范围展开研讨，明确其核心任务为调研当下局势，向国联理事会全面报告中日冲突的各类情况。因此，该委员会并不承担调解或谈判职能，仅负责搜集为解决冲突所需的相关信息。
决议通过后，国际联盟随即着手遴选具备专业资质的人员，确保其能够客观评估满洲地区的实际状况。李顿委员会的人员构成颇具特点：委员多拥有殖民事务相关的专业从业经验，却在国际政治领域鲜少知名。其人员产生遵循特定程序，先由各国政府提名委员人选，再由国联理事会主席选定，最终还需获得冲突双方中国与日本的认可。
二、1932年：伪满洲国成立后——国联调查与大会辩论
 1. 1932年1月：国联调查团正式组建
背景：1932年1月1日日本关东军对锦州发起总攻，1月3日占领锦州，东北全境基本沦陷；1月22日国联调查团在日内瓦正式宣告成立，随即筹备赴华调查。
关联会议铺垫：调查团的组建是1931年12月10日理事会决议的落地，其后续报告将成为1932年国联大会辩论的核心依据。
2. 1932年9月19日由国际联盟秘书处发布的正式文件，记录了日本代表团向国联通报其与伪满洲国签订《日满议定书》的事件，是日本在国际上试图为侵略行为 “正名” 的关键外交文件。
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
C.655.M.318.1932.VII. 
Geneva, September 19th
APPEAL FROM THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
Communication from the Japanese Delegation.
Note by the Secretary-General
The Secretary-General has the honor to communicate to the Council and Members of the League the following information which has been forwarded to the Acting President of the Council by the Japanese Representative.
 Paris, September 16th, 1932
To the President of the Council, 
(Translation) 
In conformity with instructions I have received from my Government, I have the honour to inform you that the Japanese Government has concluded with the Manchukuo Government a protocol, dated September 15th, the English and French translations of which are annexed to the present note. The Japanese Government has thus granted to that State its formal recognition. On the other hand, the Japanese Government has made in connection with the signature of the above-mentioned protocol a statement, the text of which is reproduced in Annex B. 
(Signed) H. NAGAOKA 
Permanent Representative of Japan on the Council of the League.
译文：
国际联盟
C.655.M.318.1932.VII.
日内瓦，9月19日
中国政府的呼吁
日本代表团来文
秘书长的说明
秘书长谨向国联理事会及国联成员国转达以下信息，该信息由日本代表转交给理事会代理主席。
1932年9月16日，巴黎
致理事会主席：
（译文）
根据本国政府指示，我荣幸地通知阁下，日本政府已于9月15日与“满洲国”政府签订一项议定书，其英文及法文本附于本照会之后。日本政府由此正式承认“满洲国”。另一方面，日本政府在签署上述议定书时发表了一项声明，声明全文载于附件二。
（签名）长冈春一
日本驻国联理事会常驻代表
ANNEX A.
PROTOCOL. BETWEEN JAPAN AND MANCHOUKUO
signed September 15, 1932 at Hsinking.
Whereas Japan has recognise the fact that Manchoukuo, in accordance with the free will of its inhabitants, has organised and established itself as an independent state;and
Whereas Manchoukuo has declared its intention of abiding by all international engagements entered into by China in so far as they are applicable to Manchoukuo;
Now the Governments of Japan and Manchoukuo have, for the purpose of establishing a perpetual relationship of good neighbourhood between Japan and Manchoukuo, each respecting the territorial rights of the other, and also in order to secure the peace of the F r East, agreed as follows:
 1.Manchoukuo shall confirm and respect, in so far as no agreement to the contrary stall be made between Japan and Manchoukuo in the future, all rights and interests possessed by Japan or her subjects within the territory of Manchoukuo by virtue of Sino-Japanese treaties, agreements or other arrangements or Sino-Japanese contracts, private as well as public;
2. Japan and Manchoukuo recognising that any threat to the peace and order of either of the High Contracting parties constitutes at the same time a threat to the safety and existence of the other, agree to co-operate in the maintenance of this national security; it will be understood that such Japanese forces as may be necessary for this purpose will be stationed in Manchnukuo. 
The present protocol shall come into effect from the date of its signature. 
The present protocol has been drawn up in Japanese-and Chinese, two identical copies being made in each language, should any difference arise in regard to interpretation between the Japanese and the Chinese texts, the Japanese text shall prevail. 
In witness whereof the under-signed, duly authorised by their respective Governments, have signed the present protocol and have affixed their seals thereto. 
Done at Hsinking, this 15th day of the Ninth month of the Seventh year of Showa, corresponding to the 15th day of the Ninth month of the First year of To-tung. 
(L.S.) Nobuyoshi MUTO Ambassador Extr ordinary and Plenipotentiary of His Majesty the Emperor of Jap n. 
(L.S.) CHENG Hsiao-hsu 
Prime Minister of Manchoukuo
译文：
附件A
《日本与“满洲国”议定书》
1932年9月15日于“新京”签署
鉴于日本已承认“满洲国”系根据其居民之自由意愿，组织并建立为一独立国家之事实；
鉴于“满洲国”已声明其有意遵守中国所订立且适用于“满洲国”之一切国际约定；
兹为在日本与“满洲国”间建立永久之睦邻关系，彼此尊重领土权利，并确保远东和平，日本政府与“满洲国”政府达成如下协议：
1. 除日后日本与“满洲国”另有相反协议外，“满洲国”应确认并尊重日本或其臣民依据中日条约、协定、其他安排或中日公私契约，在“满洲国”领土内所拥有之一切权利与利益；
2. 日本与“满洲国”承认，对缔约任何一方之和平与秩序之威胁，同时亦构成对另一方安全与生存之威胁，双方同意合作维护国家安全；达成共识，为此目的所需之日本军队将驻扎于“满洲国”境内。
本议定书自签署之日起生效。
本议定书以日文及中文拟就，每种文字各制两份，内容相同。若日、中文本在解释上出现任何分歧，以日文本为准。
下列签署人经各自政府正式授权，签署本议定书并加盖印章，以昭信守。
昭和七年九月十五日，即大同元年九月十五日，于“新京”签订。
（盖章）武藤信义 日本天皇特命全权大使
（盖章）郑孝胥“满洲国”总理大臣
ANNEX B
STATEMENT OF JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
September 15th, 1932
Manchuria is the land for the preservation of whose integrity Japan, on one memorable occasion, set her national destinies at stake. For twenty-seven years which have elapsed since, our people have participated in the development of Manchuria. Their untiring efforts have rendered it prosperous land that it is to-day, and it had now come to have inescapable bearing upon our national defence and very existence of our Of recent years, however, the anti-foreign revolutionary people diplomacy which has been adopted by China under the influence of radical ideology has steadily encroached upon our all important rights and interests there, and finally the incident of September 18th last compelled Japan to resort to necessary measures of self-defence. 
Upon the downfall of all the North-Eastern regime consequent upon the occurrence of the Manchurian affair, leading personalities in the Province of Mukden, Kirin, Heilung kiang and Jehol, Tungsheng Special District and the League of Mongolian Banners assembled in consultation, and on March 1st of this year promulgated a Declaration of Independence, by which they proclaimed severance as from that date of all relations with the Republic of China and the establishment of the independent State of Manchukuo. The Declaration set forth a constructive programme of the new State in which inter alia it has made clear its intention internally to abolish political corruption of the old regime and to carry out a policy characteristic of the "Kingly Way", and externally to honour a sense of justice to seek international good will and friendship to take over existing obligations and to respect the principle of Open Door and Equal Opportunity- domestic and foreign policies which are all very fair and above-board. On March 10th, the Manchukuo Government sent a communication to Japan and sixteen other countries, in which they repeated the above programme and requested them to establish normal diplomatic relations with Manchukuo. 
With serious concern and minute attention the Imperial Japanese Government have closely followed the development of conditions in Manchukuo during last half a year and have come to recognise that Manchukuo's sincerity and determination to carry out the above policies can be relied upon. For instance, Manchukuo has established a special committee in order to prepare for the abolition of extra territoriality, opening up of interior to all foreigners alike and other treaty revisions, and in this regard its attitude directed as it has been to the attainment of desired revision through the agreement with the Powers concerned and without resorting to any unilateral measure of termination has been particularly notable. 
Measures which have been taken for the reform of financial and other systems have also obtained appreciable results. Thus Manchukuo is now steadily developing into full maturity as an independent State and is assured of future full of promise.
In consideration of the attitude of Manchukuo to domestic and foreign problems above referred to and of Japan's interest in Manchuria as regard to vital importance of her national defence and existence of her people, the Imperial Japanese Government have set out to secure tranquility in this region as soon as possible and to guarantee for all time to come foundations of security of the Empire and peace of Ear East. With these purposes in view the Government instructed General Muto, His Majesty's Ambassador to sign on this date a Protocol recording agreement concluded with Manchukuo authorities and thus accorded formal recognition to that country. That Japan's action in this connection is not derogatory to any treaty to which she is party has been made clear in the address of the Minister for Foreign Affairs made at the Imperial Diet on August 25th last. 
The Protocol confirms the fact that Manchukuo is an independent State organised in accordance with free will of its inhabitants and it stipulates that all rights and interests which Japan and her subjects possess within the territory of Manchukuo by virtue of treaties and other agreements are to be confirmed and respected, thus doing away once for all with all pending disputes concerning these rights and interests. Recognising the fact that any menace to Manchuria constitutes at the same time threat to safety and existence of the Empire, the Protocol further provides that Japan and Manchukuo are to co-operate in maintenance of their national security and that the Japanese forces necessary for this purpose are to be stationed in Manchukuo. It is the object of the Protocol thus to establish perpetual relationship of good neighbourhood between the two countries and to secure the peace of Far East. On several occasions the Japanese Government have declared that they harbour no territorial designs in Manchuria and the preamble of the Protocol reaffirms that both contracting Powers will mutually respect each other's territorial rights. 
As regard to economic activities of foreigners, Manchukuo Government made clear in their communication of March 10th above alluded to that they would observe the principle of Open Door. What Japan desires in Manchuria is to do away with all anti-foreign policies there so that the region may become safe place of above for natives and foreigners alike while at the same time, guaranteeing her legitimate rights and interests there; and therefore it is hardly necessary to repeat the assurance that Japan sincerely hopes that all peoples of the world will pursue their economic activities in Manchuria on the footing of equal opportunity and will thereby contribute to development and prosperity of that region. 
It is Safely to be expected that entire world will come to have ever increasing understanding of and confidence in the sincere desire and the earnest effort of Manchukuo to carry out its foreign and domestic policies and that Powers will make no long delay in establishing diplomatic relations with it. It according the formal recognition to Manchukuo, Japanese Government desire to express hearty wishes for the future of the country and a fervent hope that our people will spare no effort in fulfilling the duty of a friendly neighbour, so that two countries may live and flourish together in common prosperity.
译文：
附件B
日本政府声明
1932年9月15日
满洲地区，曾有一次，日本为维护其领土完整，将国家命运系于其上。自那以后的27年间，我国民众参与了满洲的开发。他们不懈的努力使满洲成为今日这般繁荣之地，如今，满洲对于我国国防及国民生存有着不可回避的重要意义。然而近年来，中国在激进思想影响下所采取的排外革命外交政策，不断侵犯我国在满洲的各项重要权益。最终，去年9月18日的事变迫使日本采取必要的自卫措施。
满洲事变发生后，东北各政权垮台，奉天、吉林、黑龙江、热河各省，东省特别区及蒙古各盟旗的主要人士集会商议，并于今年3月1日发布独立宣言，宣布自该日起断绝与中华民国的一切关系，建立“满洲国”这一独立国家。该宣言阐述了新国家的建设纲领，其中明确表示，在国内要废除旧政权的政治腐败，推行“王道”政策；在对外方面，秉持正义感，寻求国际亲善与友好，承担现有义务，尊重门户开放和平等机会原则——这些内外政策均极为公正、光明正大。3月10日，“满洲国”政府致函日本及其他16个国家，重申上述纲领，并请求各国与“满洲国”建立正常外交关系。
日本帝国政府极为关切并密切留意过去半年间“满洲国”局势的发展，现已确认“满洲国”执行上述政策的诚意与决心值得信赖。例如，“满洲国”设立了一个特别委员会，筹备废除治外法权、向所有外国人开放内地及其他条约修订事宜。在这方面，其态度尤为值得注意，即旨在通过与有关列强达成协议实现期望的修订，而不采取任何单方面废止条约的措施。
在财政及其他制度改革方面所采取的措施也取得了显著成效。因此，“满洲国”如今正稳步发展，日益成熟，成为一个独立国家，其未来充满希望。
鉴于“满洲国”对上述国内外问题的态度，以及满洲地区对日本国防及国民生存至关重要的利益关系，日本帝国政府决心尽快确保该地区的安宁，并永远保障帝国安全及远东和平的基础。出于这些目的，政府指令日本大使武藤将军于今日签署一项议定书，记录与“满洲国”当局达成的协议，从而正式承认“满洲国”。日本外务大臣去年8月25日在帝国议会的演讲中已明确表示，日本在此事上的行动并不违背其签署的任何条约。
该议定书确认“满洲国”是一个根据其居民自由意愿组建的独立国家，并规定日本及其国民依据条约及其他协定在“满洲国”领土内所拥有的一切权利和利益将得到确认和尊重，从而一劳永逸地解决有关这些权利和利益的所有悬而未决的争端。鉴于对满洲的任何威胁同时也构成对帝国安全与生存的威胁这一事实，议定书还规定日本与“满洲国”将合作维护国家安全，为此目的所需的日本军队将驻扎在“满洲国”。该议定书的目的即在于在两国间建立永久的睦邻关系，确保远东和平。日本政府曾多次声明，在满洲并无领土野心，议定书序言再次确认，缔约双方将相互尊重对方的领土权利。
关于外国人的经济活动，“满洲国”政府在上述3月10日的函件中明确表示将遵守门户开放原则。日本在满洲所期望的，是消除那里的一切排外政策，使该地区成为本国人和外国人同样安全的地方，同时保障日本在那里的合法权益。因此，无需再次保证，日本真诚希望世界各国人民能在平等机会的基础上在满洲开展经济活动，从而为该地区的发展与繁荣做出贡献。
完全可以期待，全世界将越来越理解并信任“满洲国”执行其内外政策的真诚愿望与不懈努力，各国将不再拖延与“满洲国”建立外交关系。日本政府在正式承认“满洲国”之际，衷心祝愿该国未来发展顺利，并热切希望我国民众不遗余力地履行友好邻邦的责任，以使两国能够共同生存、共同繁荣。
3. 1932年12月6日：国联全体会议（日内瓦）——中、日代表公开辩论伪满洲国合法性
The Consul at Geneva (Gilbert) to the Secretary of State 
Geneva, December 6, 1932—4 p.m. 
[Received December 6—3:10 p.m.] 
Consulate’s 342, November 29, noon. The Assembly convened in plenary meeting this morning. After a summary statement by Hymans the Chinese and Japanese delegates made extended addresses. 
1. Yen opened the discussion by citing portions of the Lytton report which he declared established Japan beyond any doubt as the aggressor. In answer to previous assertions of Japan that the recognition of Manchukuo rendered the conclusions of the Commission out of date he cited a quotation by Lytton to the effect that the Japanese Foreign Minister had informed the Commission of the impending act of recognition and that the report was written with full account being taken of this situation. He criticised the report for failing to define provisional measures for the immediate restoration of the Three Eastern Provinces to China but stated that this was a point which the Chinese Government understood would be left to the Assembly. He then presented to the Assembly four specific requests.
That on the basis of the Lytton inquiry it declare that Japan had violated the Covenant, the Kellogg Pact and the Nine-Power Treaty. 
That it call upon Japan to execute forthwith the Council resolutions of September 30 and December 10, 1931, with a view to the withdrawal of Japanese troops and the dissolution of the Manchukuo Government. 
That recalling its resolution of March 11th it declares that it will not recognize the Manchukuo Government and 
That it draw up within the shortest possible time and before a definite date a report for a final settlement as prescribed in paragraph 4, article XV of the Covenant. He explained that the Chinese Government did not intend by this last request to preclude the possibility of conciliation being brought about by the Assembly on the basis of the instructions mentioned in (a) above but that it was prepared to discuss the solution suggested in the report in the event that Japan should prove willing to accept conciliation on the same basis.
2. Matsuoka reserving the right to reply to Yen then made a detailed defense of the Japanese position and repeated therein many of the arguments already familiar to the Department, especially with regard to the chaotic conditions of China and the development of communism, the Japanese measures of self-defense in Manchuria, the inability of the League to afford adequate protection to Japanese interests in Manchuria, the Japanese offer of direct negotiations, the effect of the Chinese boycott and the intervention of foreign powers in China in 1927. With regard to the last point he quoted extensively from the letter of Chamberlain to the Council under date of February 8, 1927.He also discussed at some length the developments of anti-foreign sentiment in China.
With regard to Manchukuo he mentioned that the Lytton report nowhere impeaches Japan for abetting an independence movement and reiterated previous denials of Japanese participation therein. As to recognition it afforded the solution for peace and prosperity in Manchuria and for the protection of Japanese interests therein. In this connection he quoted certain passages of the Lytton report regarding the future of Manchuria particularly that paragraph where it is held that the restoration of the status quo ante is no solution. He made no comment on the Lytton report except to deplore the impression that Japan opposes and China supports the report. He held that principal Japanese disagreement relates to optimism therein expressed for rehabilitation of China. Settlement should be governed by following principles:
“(a) The terms must be such that they can be effectively put into operation and that they will accomplish and preserve peace in the Far East. 
(b) A solution must be found for the disordered condition of China. 
(c) In case any plan for settlement is found by the League this organization must take upon itself the responsibilities for its execution.”
译文：
驻日内瓦领事（吉尔伯特）致国务卿
日内瓦，1932年12月6日——下午4时
[12月6日下午3时10分收到]
领事馆11月29日中午发出的第342号电文。今日上午，国联大会举行全体会议。在伊曼斯作简要陈述后，中日两国代表发表了长篇演讲。
1. 颜惠庆率先发言开启讨论，他援引李顿报告部分内容，称这些内容确凿无疑地证明日本为侵略者。针对日本此前宣称承认“满洲国”使调查委员会结论过时一说，他引用李顿的话，大意是日本外相已告知调查委员会即将承认“满洲国”，且报告撰写时已充分考虑这一情况。他批评该报告未明确将东三省立即归还中国的临时措施，但表示中国政府理解这一点将交由国联大会处理。随后，他向国联大会提出四项具体要求：
    (a) 基于李顿调查，宣布日本违反了《国际联盟盟约》、《凯洛格——白里安公约》（《非战公约》）及《九国公约》。
    (b) 要求日本即刻执行1931年9月30日和12月10日国联理事会决议，以实现日军撤离及“满洲国”政府解散。
    (c) 回顾其3月11日决议，宣布不承认“满洲国”政府。
    (d) 在尽可能短的时间内且在确定日期前，按《国际联盟盟约》第十五条第四款规定，起草一份最终解决方案报告。他解释，中国政府提出最后一项要求，并非要排除国联大会根据上述a项指示促成和解的可能性，而是准备在日本愿意基于同样基础接受和解时，讨论报告中提出的解决方案。
2. 松冈洋右保留回应颜惠庆的权利，随后详细为日本立场辩护，重复了许多国务院熟知的论点，特别是关于中国的混乱局势与共产主义发展、日本在满洲的自卫举措、国联无力充分保护日本在满洲的利益、日本提出直接谈判提议、中国抵制日货的影响以及1927年外国列强对中国的干涉。关于最后一点，他大量引用了1927年2月8日张伯伦致国联理事会的信件内容。他还详细论述了中国反外情绪的发展情况。
关于“满洲国”，他提到李顿报告中并无指责日本煽动独立运动之处，并再次否认日本参与其中。至于承认“满洲国”，他称这为满洲的和平繁荣及日本在当地利益的保护提供了解决办法。在此方面，他引用李顿报告中关于满洲未来的某些段落，特别是其中认为恢复原状并非解决之道的那段。除对给人造成日本反对而中国支持该报告的印象表示遗憾外，他未对李顿报告作其他评论。他认为日本主要的分歧在于报告中对中国复兴所表达的乐观态度。解决方案应遵循以下原则：
“(a) 条款必须切实可行，且能实现并维护远东和平。
(b) 必须找到解决中国混乱局面的办法。
(c) 若国联找到任何解决方案，该组织必须承担实施责任。”
三、1933年：最终定性与日本退出国联——国联决议的顶点与失效
1.1933年2月24日：国联全体会议通过《关于满洲问题的报告书》（最终决议）
背景：1932年《李顿报告》发布后，国联理事会多次审议，最终提交全体会议表决；此时伪满洲国已运行近一年，日本仍拒绝撤兵，且加速在东北推行殖民统治。
会议核心：对《李顿报告》结论及“伪满洲国合法性”进行最终投票表决。
决议核心内容：
明确“中国对东北拥有主权”，日本“违反《国联盟约》，以武力占领中国领土并扶植傀儡政权”；
认定“九一八事变中日军行动非自卫”，“伪满洲国是日本参谋本部指导建立，其存在依赖日军，非民族自决产物”；
重申“不承认伪满洲国”，要求日本撤军并恢复东北主权。
结果：以44票赞成、1票反对（日本）、1票弃权（泰国）通过决议。
ASSEMBLY REPORT
on the
SINO-JAPANESE DISPUTE
The following report was adopted by the Assembly on February 24th, I933.
REPORT.
The Assembly, in view of the failure of the efforts which, under Article I5, para-graph 3, of the Covenant, it was its duty to make with a view to effecting a settlement of the dispute submitted for its consideration under paragraph 9 of the said article, adopts, in virtue of paragraph 4 of that article, the following report containing a statement of the facts of the dispute and the recommendations which are deemed just and proper in regard thereto.
PART Ⅰ
EVENTS IN THE FAR EAST. ADOPTION OFTHE FIRST EIGHT CHAPTERS OF THEREPORT OF THE COMMISSION OF ENQUIRY.PLAN OF THE REPORT.
PART II.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE DISPUTE BEFORE THELEAGUE OF NATIONS.
1. Summary of the Development of the Dispute.
2. Origin of the Dispute before the League of Nations. -Events of September I8th-19th,I93I, in South Manchuria. -First Discussions of the Council.
3. Development of Japanese Military Operations in North Manchuria.
4. Measures for the Reorganisation of the Civil Administration in Manchuria.
5. Session of the Council in November-December I93I.-Constitution of a Commission of Enquiry.
6. Japanese Operations against Chinchow. -Disappearance of the Last Remains of Chinese Authority in South Manchuria.
7. The Shanghai Hostilities. -Origin of the Hostilities.
8. The Shanghai Hostilities. -Discussions of the Council:-Reference to Article to of the Covenant.-First Discussions of the Assembly under Article I5.-Terminationof the Shanghai Hostilities.
9. Development of the Japanese Occupation in Manchria. -Progress of Administrative Reorganisation. - The Constitution of "Manchukuo.”
10. Discussions of the Assembly. -Resolution of March 11th. -Decisions regarding the Time-limit for the Preparation of the Report under Article I5.
11. The Organisation of "Manchukuo."--Recognition of “Manchukuo” by Japan.
12. Consideration by the Council of the Report of the Commission of Enquiry.
13. Discussion of the Report of the Commission of Enquiry by the Assembly. -Attempt to Negotiate a Settlement.
14. Japanese Military Operations at Shanhaikwan within the Great Wall.
15. Failure of the Procedure for Negotiating a Settlement.
PART III.
CHIEF CHARACTERISTICS OF THE DISPUTE.
PART IV.
STATEMENT OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS.
This part sets forth the recommendations which the Assembly deems just and proper in regard to the dispute.
SECTION I.
The recommendations of the Assembly take into account the very special circum-stances of this case and are based on the following principles, conditions and considerations:
SECTION II.
The provisions of this section constitute the recommendations of the Assembly under Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Covenant. 
Having defined. the principles, conditions and considerations applicable to the settlement of the dispute,
THE ASSEMBLY RECOMMENDS AS FOLLOWS:
1, Whereas the sovereignty over Manchuria belongs to China,
A. Considering that the presence of Japanese troops outside the zone of the South Manchuria Railway and their operations outside this zone are incompatible with the legal principles which should govern the settlement of the dispute, and that it is necessary to establish as soon as possible a situation consistent with these principles, The Assembly recommends the evacuation of these troops. In view of the special circumstances of the case, the first object of the negotiations recommended here in after should be to organise this evacuation and to determine the methods, stages and time-limits thereof.
B. Having regard to the local conditions special to Manchuria, the particular rights and interests possessed by Japan there in, and the rights and interests of third States,
The Assembly recommends the establishment in Manchuria, within a reasonable period, of an organisation under the sovereignty of, and compatible with the administrative integrity of, China. This organisation should provide a wide measure of autonomy, should be in harmony with local conditions and should take account of the multilateral treaties in force, the particular rights and interests of Japan, the rights and interests of third States, and, in general, the principles and conditions reproduced in SectionⅠ(c) above; the determination of the respective powers of and relations between the Chinese Central Government and the local authorities should be made the subject of a Declaration by the Chinese Government having the force of an international undertaking.
2. Whereas, in addition to the questions dealt with in the two recommendations 1A and 1B, the report of the Commission of Enquiry mentions in the principles and conditions for a settlement of the dispute set out in SectionⅠ(c) above certain other questions affecting the good understanding between China and Japan, on which peace in the Far East depends, The Assembly recommends the parties to settle these questions on the basis of the said principles and conditions.
3. Whereas the negotiations necessary forgiving effect to the foregoing recommendations should be carried on by means of a suitable organ, The Assembly recommends the opening of negotiations between the two parties in accordance with the method specified herein-after.
Each of the parties is invited to inform the Secretary-General whether it accepts, so far as it is concerned, the recommendations of the Assembly, subject to the sole condition that the other party also accepts them.
The negotiations between the parties should take place with the assistance of a Committee set up by the Assembly as follows: The Assembly hereby invites the Governments of Belgium, Great Britain, Canada, Czechoslovakia, France, Germany, the Irish Free State, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Turkey each to appoint a member of the Committee as soon as the Secretary-General shall have informed them that the two parties accept the Assembly's recommendations. The Secretary-General shall also notify the Governments of the United States of America and of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of this acceptance and invite each of them to appoint a member of the Committee should it so desire. Within one month after having been informed of the acceptance of the two parties, the Secretary-General shall take all suitable steps for the opening of negotiations. In order to enable the Members of the League, after the opening of negotiations, to judge whether each of the parties is acting in conformity with the Assembly's recommendations:
(a) The Committee will, whenever it thinks fit, report on the state of the negotiations, and particularly on the negotiations with regard to the carrying out of recommendations 1A and B above; as regards recommendation 1A, the Committee will in any case report within three months of the opening of negotiations. These reports shall be communicated by the Secretary-General to the Members of the League and to the non-member States represented on the Committee;
(6) The Committee may submit to the Assembly all questions relating to the interpretation of Section II of Part IV of the present report. The Assembly shall give this interpretation in the same conditions as those in which the present report is adopted, in conformity with Article 15,Paragraph 10, of the Covenant.
SECTION III.
In view of the special circumstances ofthe case, the recommendations made do notprovide for a mere return to the status quo existing before September, 1931. They like-wise exclude the maintenance and recognition of the existing regime in Manchuria, such maintenance and recognition being incompatible with the fundamental principles of existing international obligations and with the good understanding between the two countries on which peace in the Far East depends.
It follows that, in adopting the present report, the Members of the League intend to abstain, particularly as regards the existing regime in Manchuria, from any act which might prejudice or delay the carrying out of the recommendations of the said report.
They will continue not to recognise this regime either de jure or de facto. They intend to abstain from taking any isolated action with regard to the situation in Manchuria and to continue to concert their action among themselves as well as with the interested States not members of the League. As regards the Members of the League who are signatories of the Nine-Power Treaty, it may be recalled that, in accordance with the provisions of that Treaty: " Whenever a situation arises which, in the opinion of any one of them, involves the application of the stipulations of the present Treaty and renders desirable discussion of such application, there shall be full and frank communication between the contracting Powers concerned."
In order to facilitate as far as possible the establishment in the Far East of a situation in conformity with the recommendations of the present report, the Secretary-General is instructed to communicate a copy of this report to the States non-merbers of the League who are signatories of the Pact of Paris or of the Nine-Power Treaty, informing them of the Assembly's hope that they will associate themselves with the views expressed in the report, and that they will, if necessary, concert their action and their attitude with the Members of the League.
译文：
关于中日争端的大会报告
以下报告于 1933 年 2 月 24 日由大会通过。
报告
鉴于根据《国际联盟盟约》第十五条第三款规定，为促成解决提交大会审议的争端而做出的努力未能成功，大会依据该条第四款，通过以下报告。报告陈述了争端事实，并就争端提出了公正、恰当的建议。
第一部分
远东事件。采纳调查委员会报告的前八章。报告规划。
第二部分
争端在国际联盟的发展情况
争端发展概述
争端在国际联盟的起源：1931年9月18-19日南满洲事件。理事会首次讨论。
日军在北满洲军事行动的发展
满洲民政管理重组措施
1931年11-12月理事会会议：成立调查委员会。
日军对锦州的行动：中国在南满洲的统治残余消失。
上海战事：战事起源。
上海战事：理事会讨论；提及《盟约》第十条；大会依据第十五条首次讨论；上海战事结束。
日军在满洲占领的发展：行政管理重组进展；“满洲国” 的成立。
大会讨论：3 月 11 日决议；关于依据第十五条编写报告期限的决定。
“满洲国” 的组织架构：日本对 “满洲国” 的承认。
理事会对调查委员会报告的审议
大会对调查委员会报告的讨论：尝试通过谈判解决争端。
日军在长城内山海关的军事行动
谈判解决程序的失败
第三部分：争端的主要特征
第四部分：建议陈述
本部分阐述了大会认为针对该争端公正、恰当的建议。
第一节
大会的建议考虑到本案的特殊情况，并基于以下原则、条件和考量。
第二节
本节规定构成大会依据《盟约》第十五条第四款提出的建议。在界定了适用于解决争端的原则、条件和考量后，大会建议如下：
1.鉴于满洲主权属于中国，
A：考虑到日军在南满铁路区域之外的存在及其在该区域外的行动，与应主导争端解决的法律原则相悖，且有必要尽快建立符合这些原则的局势，大会建议撤离这些军队。鉴于本案特殊情况，下文建议的谈判首要目标应是安排此次撤离，并确定撤离的方式、阶段和期限。
B：考虑到满洲当地特殊情况、日本在当地拥有的特殊权益以及第三国的权益，大会建议在合理期限内在满洲建立一个在中国主权之下且与中国行政完整相符的组织。该组织应拥有广泛自治权，应与当地情况相协调，并应考虑现行多边条约、日本的特殊权益、第三国的权益，以及总体上上文第一节（c）所述的原则和条件；中国中央政府与地方当局各自权力及相互关系的确定，应由中国政府发表具有国际承诺效力的声明。
2.除 1A 和 1B 两项建议所涉问题外，调查委员会报告在上述第一节（c）所述争端解决原则和条件中提及，某些其他影响中日两国良好理解的问题，而远东和平取决于此，大会建议双方基于上述原则和条件解决这些问题。
3.鉴于为落实上述建议所需的谈判应通过适当机构进行，大会建议双方按照下文规定的方式开启谈判。
邀请双方各自告知秘书长，就其自身而言，是否接受大会的建议，但唯一条件是另一方也接受这些建议。
双方之间的谈判应在大会设立的一个委员会协助下进行，具体如下：大会特此邀请比利时、英国、加拿大、捷克斯洛伐克、法国、德国、爱尔兰自由邦、意大利、荷兰、葡萄牙、西班牙和土耳其政府，一旦秘书长通知它们双方已接受大会建议，即尽快各自任命一名委员会成员。秘书长还应将这一接受情况通知美利坚合众国政府和苏维埃社会主义共和国联盟政府，并邀请它们如有意愿各自任命一名委员会成员。在得知双方接受建议后的一个月内，秘书长应采取一切适当措施开启谈判。为使国联成员国在谈判开启后能够判断双方是否依照大会建议行事：
（a） 委员会应在认为适当时，报告谈判进展情况，特别是关于落实上文 1A和1B建议的谈判情况；对于1A建议，委员会无论如何应在谈判开启后三个月内提交报告。这些报告应由秘书长分发给国联成员国及在委员会中有代表的非成员国；
（b） 委员会可向大会提交与本报告第四部分第二节解释相关的所有问题。大会应按照通过本报告相同的条件，依据《盟约》第十五条第十款做出这一解释。
第三节
鉴于本案特殊情况，所提建议并非仅仅要求恢复到 1931 年 9 月之前的状态。这些建议同样排除维持和承认满洲现有政权，因为这种维持和承认与现有国际义务的基本原则以及两国间的良好理解相悖，而远东和平正依赖于此。
由此可见，国联成员国通过本报告时，尤其针对满洲现有政权，打算避免采取任何可能损害或拖延落实上述报告建议的行动。
它们将继续在法律上和事实上都不承认该政权。它们打算避免就满洲局势采取任何单独行动，并继续在彼此之间以及与非国联的相关国家协调行动。对于签署《九国公约》的国联成员国，可回顾的是，根据该公约规定：“如遇任何缔约国认为涉及本条约规定之适用问题，而该项适用宜付诸讨论者，有关系之缔约各国，应完全坦白互相通知。”
为尽可能便利在远东建立符合本报告建议的局势，指示秘书长将本报告副本送交签署《巴黎和约》或《九国公约》的非国联成员国，告知它们大会希望它们认同报告中表达的观点，并在必要时与国联成员国协调行动和态度。
2. 日本宣布退出国联，彻底脱离国联框架，此后更肆无忌惮推进侵略
國際聯盟脫退通告文
（三月二十七日發決）
帝國ハ國際聯盟規約第一條第三項ニ基キ國際聯盟ヨリ脫退スル旨ノ左記通告ヲ昭和八年三月二十七
日外務大臣ヨリ國際聯盟事務局長ニ對シ電セリ
The Japanese Government believe that the national policy of Japan, which has for its aim to insure the peace of the Orient and thereby to contribute to the cause of peace throughout the world, is identical in spirit with the mission of the League of Nations, which is to achieve international peace and security. It has always been with pleasure, therefore, that this country has for thirteen years past, as an original Member of the League, and a permanent Member of its Council, extended a full measure of co-operation with her fellow-Members towards the attainment of its high purpose. It is indeed a matter of historical fact that Japan has continuously participated in the various activities of the League with a zeal not inferior to that exhibited by any other nation. At the same time, it is and has always been the conviction of the Japanese Government that in order to render possible the maintenance of peace in various regions of the world, it is necessary in existing circum-stances to allow the operation of the Covenant of the League to vary in accordance with the actual conditions prevailing in each of those regions. Only by acting on this just and equitable principle can the League fulfil its mission and increase its influence.
Acting on this conviction, the Japanese Government, ever since the Sino-Japanese dispute was, in September, 1931, submitted to the League, have, at meetings of the League and on other occasions, continually set forward a consistent view. This was, that if the League was to settle the issue fairly and equitably, and' to make a real contribution to the promotion of peace in the Orient, and thus enhance its prestige, it should acquire a complete grasp of the actual conditions in this quarter of the globe and apply the Covenant of the League in accordance with these conditions. They have repeatedly emphasized and insisted upon the absolute necessity of taking into consideration the fact that China is not an organized State,-that its internal conditions and exteral relations are characterized by extreme confusion and complexity, and by many abnormal and exceptional features, and that, accordingly, the general principles and usages of International Law which govern the ordinary relations between nations are found to be considerably modified in their operation so far as China is concerned, resulting in the quite abnormal and unique international practices which actually prevail in that country.
However, the majority of the Members of the League evinced in the course of its deliberations during the past seventeen months a failure either to grasp these realities or else to face them and take them into proper account. Moreover, it has frequently been made manifest in these deliberations that there exist serious differences of opinion between Japan and these Powers concerning the application and even the interpretation of various international engagements and obligations including the Covenant of the League and the principles of International Law. As a result, the Re-port adopted by. the Assembly at the special session of 24 February last, entirely misapprehending the spirit of Japan, pervaded as it is by no other desire than the maintenance of peace in the Orient, contains gross errors both in the ascertainment of facts and in the conclusions deduced. In asserting that tie action of the Japanese Army at the time of the Incident of 18 September and subsequently did not fall within the just limits of self-defence, the Report assigned no reasons and came to an arbitrary conclusion, and in ignoring alike the state of tension which proceeded, and the various aggravations which succeeded, the Incident-for all or which the full responsibility is incumbent upon China--the Report creates a source of fresh confict in the political arena of the Orient. By refusing to acknowledge the actual circumstances that led to the foundation of Manchoukuo, and by attempting to challenge the position taken up by Japan in recognizing the new State, it cuts away the ground for the stabilization of the Far Eastern situation. Nor can the terms laid down in its recommendations-as was fully explained in the Statement issued by this Government on'25 February last-ever be of any possible service in securing enduring peace in these regions.
The conclusion must be that in seeking a solution of the question the majority of the League have attached greater importance to upholding inapplicable formulae than to the real task of assuring peace, and higher value to the vindication of aca-demic theses than to the eradication of the sources of future conflict. For these rea-sons, and because of the profound differences of opinion existing between Japan and the majority of the League in their interpretation of the Covenant and of other treaties, the Japanese Government have been led to realize the existence of an irreconcilable divergence of views, dividing Japan and the League on policies of peace, and especially as regards the fundamental principles to be followed in the establishment of a durable peace in the Far East. The Japanese Government, believing that in these circumstances there remains no room for further co-operation, hereby give notice, in accordance with the provisions of Article 1, Paragraph 3, of the Covenant, of the intention of Japan to withdraw from the League of Nations.
译文：
国际联盟退出通告文
（3 月 27 日发布决定）
帝国依据国际联盟规约第一条第三项，于昭和 8 年 3 月 27 日，由外务大臣向国际联盟事务局长发出如下通告，表明退出国际联盟之意。
日本政府认为，日本以确保东洋和平、进而为世界和平事业做贡献为目标的国家政策，在精神上与国际联盟实现国际和平与安全的使命相一致。因此，过去 13 年间，作为国际联盟的创始成员国及理事会常任理事国，日本始终欣然与其他成员国充分合作，以实现其崇高目标。事实上，日本一直积极参与国际联盟的各项活动，热情丝毫不逊于其他任何国家。同时，日本政府始终坚信，为了维持世界不同地区的和平，在当前形势下，有必要使国际联盟盟约的实施，根据各地区的实际情况而有所不同。只有遵循这一公正公平的原则，国际联盟才能履行其使命，增强其影响力。
基于这一信念，自 1931 年 9 月中日争端提交至国际联盟以来，日本政府在国际联盟会议及其他场合，始终提出一贯观点。即国际联盟若要公正公平地解决该问题，切实促进东洋和平，进而提升自身威望，就应全面了解该地区的实际情况，并依据这些情况适用国际联盟盟约。日本政府反复强调并坚持，必须充分考虑以下事实：中国并非一个组织有序的国家，其国内状况和对外关系极度混乱复杂，存在诸多异常和特殊之处。因此，适用于国家间一般关系的国际法一般原则和惯例，在涉及中国时，其实施情况有很大改变，导致中国实际上存在着极为异常和独特的国际惯例。
然而，在过去 17 个月的审议过程中，国际联盟的大多数成员国，既未能理解这些现实，也未能正视并适当考虑这些现实。此外，在这些审议中，日本与这些国家，在包括国际联盟盟约及国际法原则在内的各种国际约定和义务的适用，甚至解释上，屡屡出现严重的意见分歧。结果，今年 2 月 24 日大会特别会议通过的报告，完全误解了日本旨在维持东洋和平的精神，在事实认定和得出的结论方面均存在严重错误。该报告在断言 9 月 18 日事变及之后日军的行动超出正当自卫范围时，未给出任何理由，便武断下结论；同时，对事变前的紧张局势以及事变后的各种激化情况（中国应对此负全部责任）均视而不见，从而在东洋政治舞台上制造了新的冲突根源。该报告拒绝承认导致 “满洲国” 成立的实际情况，试图质疑日本承认这个新国家的立场，破坏了远东局势稳定的基础。正如日本政府于 2 月 25 日发布的声明中所充分阐释的，报告中建议的条款，对于确保这些地区的持久和平，绝无任何实际作用。
由此必然得出结论：在寻求问题解决方案时，国际联盟多数成员国更重视维护不适用的准则，而非确保和平这一真正任务；更看重维护学术理论，而非消除未来冲突的根源。基于这些原因，且由于日本与国际联盟多数成员国，在对盟约及其他条约的解释上存在深刻分歧，日本政府意识到，在和平政策，尤其是在建立远东持久和平应遵循的基本原则上，日本与国际联盟之间存在不可调和的观点分歧。日本政府认为，在此情形下已无进一步合作的空间，特此依据盟约第一条第三项规定，通告日本退出国际联盟的意向。
四、围绕伪满洲国事件的国联行动时间节点（1931-1933）
18th September 1931: Manchurian Incident 満州事変 (Japanese) / 九一八事変 (Chinese) - attack on railway lines near Mukden 奉天 (today Shenyang 沈阳), initiated by officers of the Kwantung Army 関東軍.
19th September 1931: Opening meeting of the 65th Council of the League of Nations which discusses the events in Manchuria.
21st September 1931: China officially calls the League of Nations and the USA for actions to maintain peace.
30th September 1931: Resolution of the 65th Council of the League of Nations about the withdrawal of Japanese troops.
8th October 1931: Bombing of Jinzhou in the Liaoning 辽宁/遼寧 province, Chinese appeal to the League about the continuing Japanese invasion.
16th October 1931: Meeting of the Council of the League of Nations with participation of the USA; debates on the Sino-Japanese conflict.
19th November 1931: Occupation of Tsitsihar (Qiqihar 齐齐哈尔/斉斉哈爾/チチハル) in the Heilongjiang province by Japanese troops.
21st November 1931: During debates within the Council of the League of Nations, Japan proposes an international commission of enquiry.
10th December 1931: Resolution of the 65th Council of the League of Nations to send “a neutral commission” (Lytton Report: 6)
3rd January 1932: Conquest of Chinchow (Jinzhou) by Japanese troops and continuing conquest of the three Northeastern Provinces.
7th January 1932: Stimson-Doctrine: US Secretary of State Henry L. Stimson declares the non-recognition of territorial changes carried out by use of military force.
28th January - 3 March 1932: Shanghai Incident 上海事変 (Japanese) / 一・二八事変 (Chinese): the Japanese army attacks the city of Shanghai, leading to the Shanghai Ceasefire Agreement (5th May 1932).
29th January - 20th February 1932: China modifies its politics towards the League of Nations: hitherto handled as a case related to article 11 of the Covenant, the question is now discussed under article 15. This transfers the Sino-Japanese question from the close circle of the League’s Council to the public platform of the Assembly.
3rd February 1932: Members of the League of Nations Commission of Inquiry, constituted in January and named after its chairman Lord Lytton, leave Europe for their first destination, New York.
18th February 1932: Proclamation of the new state of Manchukuo 満洲国
3rd March - 9th December 1932: The League Assembly takes over the question of the Far Eastern Conflict (Special Session in Virtue of Article 15 of the Covenant), deciding to establish a special commission (the Committee of 19).
20th April 1932: The Lytton Commission travels to Dairen 大連/大连.
4th September 1932: The Lytton Report is signed in Beijing 北京; the commission members travel to Geneva via the Trans-Siberian railway.
1st October 1932: Publication and distribution of the Lytton Report in several languages.
6th - 8th December 1932: Debates on the Lytton Report in the League Special Session of the Assembly. Based on the Lytton Report, the Special Committee (Committee of 19) elaborates a statement on the Sino-Japanese question.
24th February 1933: The League Assembly adopts the statement of the special committee, confirming the violation of the League of Nations Covenant by Japan and the non-recognition of the state of Manchukuo.
27th March 1933: Japan declares to leave the League of Nations.
26th March 1935: Japan officially withdraws from the League of Nations (two years after the announcement in accordance with Article 1 of the League Covenant)