美国教科书World History: Patterns of Interaction (Grades 9-12)
Civil War Suspended: In 1931, as Chinese fought Chinese, the Japanese watched the power struggles with rising interest. Japanese forces took advantage of China’s weakening situation. They invaded Manchuria, an industrialized province in the northeast part of China.
内战暂停：1931 年，当中国人相互争斗时，日本人饶有兴致地看着双方的权力斗争。日本军队利用了中国日益削弱的局势，入侵了中国东北部的一个工业化省份满洲。
Japan Seeks an Empire
During the 1920s, the Japanese government became more democratic. In 1922, Japan signed an international treaty agreeing to respect China’s borders. In 1928, it signed the Kellogg-Briand Pact renouncing war. Japan’s parliamentary system had several weaknesses, however. Its constitution put strict limits on the powers of the prime minister and the cabinet. Most importantly, civilian leaders had little control over the armed forces. Military leaders reported only to the emperor. 
Militarists Take Control of Japan As long as Japan remained prosperous, the civilian government kept power. But when the Great Depression struck in 1929, many Japanese blamed the government. Military leaders gained support and soon won control of the country. Unlike the Fascists in Europe, the militarists did not try to establish a new system of government. They wanted to restore traditional control of the government to the military. Instead of a forceful leader like Mussolini or Hitler, the militarists made the emperor the symbol of state power. Keeping Emperor Hirohito as head of state won popular support for the army leaders who ruled in his name. Like Hitler and Mussolini, Japan’s militarists were extreme nationalists. They wanted to solve the country’s economic problems through foreign expansion. They planned a Pacific empire that included a conquered China. The empire would provide Japan with raw materials and markets for its goods. It would also give Japan room for its rising population. 
Japan Invades Manchuria Japanese businesses had invested heavily in China’s northeast province, Manchuria. It was an area rich in iron and coal. In 1931, the Japanese army seized Manchuria, despite objections from the Japanese parliament. The army then set up a puppet government. Japanese engineers and technicians began arriving in large numbers to build mines and factories.
The Japanese attack on Manchuria was the first direct challenge to the League of Nations. In the early 1930s, the League’s members included all major democracies except the United States. The League also included the three countries that posed the greatest threat to peace—Germany, Japan, and Italy. When Japan seized Manchuria, many League members vigorously protested. Japan ignored the protests and withdrew from the League in 1933.
译文：
日本谋求帝国
在 20 世纪 20 年代，日本政府变得更加民主。1922 年，日本签署了一项国际条约，同意尊重中国的边界。1928 年，它签署了《凯洛格——白里安公约》，宣布放弃战争。然而，日本的议会制有几个弱点。其宪法对首相和内阁的权力有严格限制。最重要的是，文职领导人对武装部队几乎没有控制权。军事领导人只向天皇负责。
军国主义者掌控日本 只要日本保持繁荣，文官政府就能掌权。但当 1929 年大萧条袭来时，许多日本人指责政府。军事领导人获得了支持，并很快赢得了对国家的控制。与欧洲的法西斯分子不同，军国主义者并没有试图建立一个新的政府体系。他们想要恢复军队对政府的传统控制。军国主义者没有像墨索里尼或希特勒那样的强势领导人，而是让天皇成为国家权力的象征。保留裕仁天皇作为国家元首为以他的名义统治的军队领导人赢得了民众支持。和希特勒、墨索里尼一样，日本的军国主义者是极端民族主义者。他们想通过对外扩张来解决国家的经济问题。他们计划建立一个包括被征服的中国在内的太平洋帝国。这个帝国将为日本提供原材料和商品市场。它还将为日本不断增长的人口提供空间。
日本入侵满洲 日本企业在中国东北省份满洲进行了大量投资。这是一个铁和煤资源丰富的地区。1931 年，尽管日本议会反对，日本军队还是占领了满洲。然后军队建立了一个傀儡政府。日本工程师和技术人员开始大量抵达，建造矿山和工厂。日本对满洲的进攻是对国际联盟的首次直接挑战。在 20 世纪 30 年代初，国际联盟的成员包括除美国之外的所有主要民主国家。国际联盟还包括对和平构成最大威胁的三个国家——德国、日本和意大利。当日本占领满洲时，许多国际联盟成员强烈抗议。日本无视抗议，并于1933年退出了国际联盟。
美国报纸关于伪满洲国的相关报道
九一八事变之后的有关报道
1.美国佛罗里达州坦帕市《La Gaceta》报
Shanghai, abril 21.La Comisión de la Liga de Naciones que investiga las batallas verificadas entre las tropas chinas y las japonesas, se encuentra frente a un gran número de hechos y declaraciones que le han colocado en una situación muy confusa. Cuando el Japonés con sus aventuras en Manchuria, pasado septiembre, repentinamente dio paso en Tokio que el asunto era un incidente local y que no pasaría más allá de los suburbios de la ciudad de Mukden. Hoy, como todo el mundo sabe, las tropas japonesas han llegado hasta los más remotos extremos de la Manchuria. Tokio repetidamente declaró que los japoneses no querían la Manchuria, sino que se reconocieran sus derechos en aquella región. Y una vez más el ministerio de relaciones del Japón insistió en que se hallaba lista para negociar directamente con el China sobre el futuro de la Manchuria; pero esta fase ha pasado con la creación del nuevo gobierno que tiene en Changchun su capital. Ahora, se anuncia que estos estados ayudarán 150 000 familias, en los próximos 10 años, a establecerse en la Manchuria y convertirse en campesinos de tierras allí. Significa esto que cada año se irá a la Manchuria 500 000 japoneses.
译文：
上海，4月21日——调查中日军队交战情况的国联委员会，正面对大量事实与声明，这使其陷入了非常混乱的局面。
去年 9 月，当日本在满洲推行冒险行动时，东京方面突然宣称这只是一起地方事件，不会超出奉天（今沈阳）郊区。如今，全世界都知道，日军已经推进到了满洲最偏远的地区。
东京方面反复声称，日本并不想要满洲，只希望其在该地区的权益得到承认。日本外交部再次表示，已准备好直接与中国就满洲的未来展开谈判；但随着以长春为首都的新政府成立， 这一阶段已成为过去。
如今有消息称，这些“国家”将在未来10年内援助15万户家庭在满洲定居，成为当地的农民。这意味着每年将有50万日本人移居满洲。
2.Japanese Imperialism in Manchuria
By L.MAGYAR.
Manchuria is the richest province of China, which is so poor in natural wealth. It exports abroad a great amount of soya bans, wheat, oil-cake, tobacco, rice, gao-lin. But the wealth of Manchuria has not only its soil Manchuria has coal, iron, gold, forests, soda.
Japanese industry grew up without a corresponding base of raw material in Japan itself. Therefore Japanese imperialism is trying to convert all China and especially Manchuria into its base of raw materials, into a market for its products, into its economic territory for the export of capital, and in connection with the threat of the anti-imperialist and agrarian revolution in Korea, into its reserve colonization fund.
In China itself, Japanese financial capital meets with strong resistance from American, British and in some places French imperialism. In Manchuria Japanese imperialism won for itself a commanding position, economically and politically, in the war with Tsarist Russia. It defended this position in the struggle with the imperialism of the U. S. A., enlarged and extended it, in spite of the opposition of the Americans and the British. The depeer the crisis in Japan itself, the sharper became the disproportion between the tremendous productive apparatus and the narrow base of raw materials, the stronger became the contradiction between the tremendous productive forces and the extent of the home market, as the result of the semi-slavish standard of life of the workers, and the semi-feudal exploitation of the peasants of Japan.
The war of competition has become stronger in the Far East between the leading imperialist powers. Japanese imperialism has dug itself in the more firmly in Manchuria. 
Manchuria has become a semi-colony of Japanese imperialism, and a jumping-off point for winning new positions in China. Based on its commanding positions in Manchuria, Japanese imperialism is stretching out feelers into inner Mongolia, is trying to penetrate into Shan-si, to get Shan-tung fully into its hands and strengthen its positions throughout all China.
All the economic commanding positions in Manchuria are in the hands of Japanese imperialism. The total sum of Japanese investments in Manchuria at the end of 1929 was 1,468,405,000 yen. (A yen is worth about 50 cents USA). In agriculture and forestry, the investments are 22.4 million yen, in mining they are 11.6 million yen, in electric power stations they are 36.1 million yen, in industry—105.6 million, in transport—679.9 millions, in banking—67.2 millions, in trading—117.7 millions, in various other undertakings—51.2 millions. Japanese capital controls foreign trade, the chief railroads, the best coal mines, the modern ironworks, the oil pressing works, the textile and silk factories, the match factories, the tobacco factories, the. biggest banks. From heavy industry to wholesale trading, from railroads to hotels, from big banks to agricultural experimental stations—Japanese capital dominates over the economy of the country.
Japanese monopolist associations have been exceptionally developed in Manchuria. The biggest monopoly is the South Manchurian Railway. In addition to the railway line, the South Manchurian Railway owns enormous store houses, workshops, one of the biggest locomotive works in Asia at Dairen, a flotiila and harbors at Dairen, Port Arthur, Inow, and Andun, its own docks at Shanghai, coal mines at Fushun, Yan-tai and other places, electric stations, gas works at Dairen, Mukden, Chandun, Andun, hotels in all the chief towns, building and reserve land to the extent of 55-60 thousand acres buildings, hospitals, experimental stations, laboratories, model silk works, chemical works, oil pressing works, breweries, iron mines, blast furnaces, factories for distilling shale oil, soda works, sawmills, etc. The capital of this monopolist giant is 671,000,000 yen. The annual budget of this "state within a state" is about 250,000,000 yen income and about 220,000,000 yen expenses.
The interests of this monopolist association predetermine to a great extent the direction of all Japanese policy in Manchuria.
译文：
《日本帝国主义在满洲》(节选)
作者：L. 马加尔
满洲是中国自然资源如此匮乏的情况下最富有的省份。它向国外出口大量大豆、小麦、油饼、烟草、大米、高粱。但满洲的财富不仅在于其土地，满洲还有煤炭、铁矿、金矿、森林、碱。
日本工业的发展在日本国内没有相应的原材料基础。因此，日本帝国主义试图将整个中国，尤其是满洲，变成其原材料基地、产品销售市场、资本输出的经济领地，并且鉴于朝鲜反帝和土地革命的威胁，将满洲变成其后备殖民地区。
在中国国内，日本金融资本遭遇了美国、英国以及在某些地方法国帝国主义的强烈抵制。在满洲，日本帝国主义在与沙皇俄国的战争中，在经济和政治上赢得了主导地位。尽管遭到美国和英国的反对，它在与美国帝国主义的斗争中捍卫了这一地位，并扩大和巩固了它。日本国内危机越严重，其庞大生产设备与狭窄原材料基础之间的失衡就越尖锐，由于工人半奴隶式的生活水平以及日本农民遭受的半封建剥削，巨大生产力与国内市场规模之间的矛盾也就越突出。
主要帝国主义列强在远东的竞争战争愈发激烈。日本帝国主义在满洲的根基扎得更深了。
满洲已成为日本帝国主义的半殖民地，以及在中国获取新地位的跳板。基于其在满洲的主导地位，日本帝国主义正向内蒙古伸出触角，试图渗透进山西，完全掌控山东，并巩固其在中国各地的地位。
满洲所有的经济主导权都掌握在日本帝国主义手中。1929 年底，日本在满洲的投资总额为14.68405 亿日元。（1 日元约合 50 美分）。在农业和林业方面的投资为 2240 万日元，矿业投资为 1160 万日元，发电站投资为 3610 万日元，工业投资为 1.056 亿日元，交通运输业投资为 6.799 亿日元，银行业投资为 6720 万日元，贸易投资为 1.177 亿日元，其他各类企业投资为 5120 万日元。日本资本控制着对外贸易、主要铁路、最好的煤矿、现代化钢铁厂、榨油厂、纺织和丝绸工厂、火柴厂、烟草厂以及最大的银行。从重工业到批发贸易，从铁路到酒店，从大银行到农业试验站 —— 日本资本主宰着这个地区的经济。
日本垄断组织在满洲异常发达。最大的垄断企业是南满洲铁道株式会社。除了铁路线，南满洲铁道株式会社还拥有巨大的仓库、车间、亚洲最大的机车工厂之一（位于大连）、一支船队以及大连、旅顺、营口和安东的港口，在上海有自己的码头，抚顺、烟台等地的煤矿，发电站，大连、奉天、长春、安东的煤气厂，所有主要城镇的酒店，5.5 - 6 万英亩的建筑用地和储备土地、建筑物、医院、试验站、实验室、模范丝绸厂、化工厂、榨油厂、啤酒厂、铁矿、鼓风炉、提炼页岩油的工厂、碱厂、锯木厂等等。这个垄断巨头的资本为 6.71 亿日元。这个 “国中之国” 的年度预算收入约为 2.5 亿日元，支出约为 2.2 亿日元。
这个垄断组织的利益在很大程度上决定了日本在满洲所有政策的方向。
3.WARNING IS SENT JAPAN
Continued from page 1
View that Stimson’s action constituted neither a protest nor an invocation of the nine-power or Kellogg. They regarded it simply as a reservation by the Unites States to protect its rights against any future developments. The Chinese legation regarded the note as a reaffirmation of America's determination to protect its rights and to sustain the sanctity of the peace machinery.
The note was brief.
“With the recent military operations about Chinchow, the last remaining administrative authority of the government of the Chinese republic in south Manchuria.as it existed prior to September 18, 193l, has been destroyed,“ the opening sentence said.
The note declared that in view of the present situation the American government feels duty-bound to notify Japan and China that 'it cannot admit the legality of any situation de facto nor does it in tend to recognize any treaty or agreement entered into between the governments, or agents there-of.” which might impair treaty rights of the United States or its citizens in China, including those covering the territorial and administrative protection of China, and the “open door” policy guaranteeing equal trade rights for all out-side nations.
POLICY OUTLINED
It also said that this government would not recognize any situation. Treaty or agreement brought about by means contrary to the obligations of the Kellogg anti-war pact which pledges all signatories not to resort to war as an instrument of national policy. The note was sent today and other nations were later given copies
About the same time President Hoover voiced the “deep concern” of the United States in the far eastern situation in greeting China’s new minister, W W. Yen
“The situation in the Far East to which you refer.” Mr. Hoover said to the envoy, “is a matter which has given deep concern to the American government, antimated as it is by a sincere desire that world peace be preserved. The American government mindful of its engagements under treaties, purposes to continue to follow with close and solicitous attention developments in that situation.”
I was learned that Stimson’s note has no connection with the recent assault on American Consul Culver B. Chamberlain in Manchuria. Stimson has accepted Japan’s apology and is now negotiating regarding the punishment of the soldiers who beat the consul.
DRAMATIC ACTION
The Secretary's dramatic action taken after ten days of thought, study and consultation with the envoys of other powers. It was impelled by the drive Japanese forces made down to Chinchow and their present menacing position at the very gates of China proper.
State department officials outlined the intent of the notes thus:
The United States has no desire to question the legitimate treaty rights of Japan in Manchuria. It does not intend to intrude itself into any settlement Japan and China may effect, except:
1-Nothing in the settlement must1infringe on the rights of the United States or its citizens set cut under the “open door” policy of free trade for all in China.
2-The settlement must not be achieved in victation of the methods set out in the Kellogg peace pact-that is, by military force.
Stimson's dramatic move brought quick reaction from the legislators an capitol hill. Some comment follows:
BORAH IN SPOTLIGHT
Chairman W. E. Borah of senate foreign relations committee said:
“The nine-power pact. According to its terms, covers the problem as presented by the Japanese invasion of Manchuria. Its terms specifically prohibit the very things which Japan has been doing. And if that treaty were respected and upheld by the nations signatorv to it. It would solve the Manchurian problem.
Senator George H. Moses. Repn. N, H., a member of the committee said:
"To invoke the nine-power treaty is one thing. To secure action under it is another.”{
Senate majority leader Watson: “Secretary Stimson had a perfect right to invoke the pact. I do not think it will do any good. Th eJapanese have Manchuria. They conducted a war to set it.”
Senator Jones. Repn. Wash.: “I am inclined to think it was a desirable action. but these matters between nations must be handled carefully. I do not want to approve anything that would send our young men to Asia.”
WALSH APPROVES
Senator Walsh, Dem. Mont.: I approve of the action and regret that it was not done earlier.” 
No threat of force is made in the note. If Japan disregards America's warning the power of public opinion, the pincer of a boycott and finally, military action are weapons among which the administration conceivably could choose. However, Stimson is anxious to keep the negotiations on a friendly plane. 
It was recalled that in 1915, when Japan made its famous 21 demands on China, and that nation, being weak. was forced to yield. President Wilson did much the same thing that Stimson did today.
The “open door” policy in China. which Stimson unheld.is one of the landmarks of American diplomacy. It holds a niche almost as high as the Monroe doctrine. 
First laid down around the turn of the then secretary of state, John Hay. the doctrine declared that all of the western powers should have equal trade opportunities in China. The policy was born amid strife among the Western powers over China, weak with age.
译文：
《向日本发出警告》（核心内容是美国对日本侵华行为的外交回应）
各方认为史汀生的行动既非抗议，亦非援引《九国公约》或《凯洛格公约》，仅视其为美国为保护自身权益对未来事态发展的保留声明。中国公使馆则认为该照会重申了美国维护其权益及和平机制神圣性的决心。
该照会措辞简要
开篇即称：“随着近期锦州周边的军事行动，中华民国政府在1931年9月18日前存在于南满的最后行政权已被摧毁。”
照会声明，鉴于当前局势，美国政府认为有责任告知中日两国：“对于任何既成事实的合法性，美国政府均不予承认；对于任何可能损害美国及其在华公民条约权益——包括涉及中国领土与行政完整之权益，以及保障各国平等贸易权利的'门户开放'政策——的条约或协定，无论由两国政府或其代理人签订，美国政府亦无意承认。"
政策阐明
照会同时表明，美国政府不会承认任何通过违反《凯洛格非战公约》义务之手段达成的局势、条约或协定——该公约要求所有缔约方不得以战争作为实施国家政策之工具。该照会于今日递交，副本将分送其他各国。
几乎同一时间，胡佛总统在接见中国新任驻美公使颜惠庆时，就远东局势表达了美国的“深切忧虑”。
总统对使节表示：“您所提及的远东局势，已引起美国政府深切忧虑。我们真诚期盼世界和平得以维系，并时刻铭记条约义务，将继续以审慎关切之态度密切关注局势发展。”
据悉，史汀生此次照会与近期美国驻满洲领事张伯伦遇袭事件无关。史汀生已接受日方道歉，目前正就惩处殴打领事的士兵事宜进行磋商。
戏剧性行动
经过十日深思、研究与盟国使节磋商，国务卿此番戏剧性行动最终因日军进逼锦州并陈兵关外而促成。
国务院官员阐明照会意图如下：美国无意质疑日本在满洲的合法条约权利，亦不打算介入中日可能达成的任何解决方案，惟须符合两项原则：
1.解决方案不得损害美国及其公民依据对华“门户开放”自由贸易政策所享有的权利；
2.解决方案不得通过违反《凯洛格和平公约》之手段达成——即不得借由武力实现。
史汀生的戏剧性举措迅速引发国会立法者反应，部分评论如下:
博拉成为焦点
参议院外交关系委员会主席博拉表示：“《九国公约》条款本身已涵盖日本侵满所引发的问题。公约条款明确禁止日本近期的所作所为。若缔约国能尊重并维护该条约，满洲问题本可迎刃而解。”
共和党参议员摩西（新罕布什尔州）指出：“援引《九国公约》是一回事，依约采取行动则是另一回事。”
参议院多数党领袖沃森称：“史汀生国务卿完全有权援引该公约。但我认为这无济于事——日本人已占领满洲，他们通过战争夺取了它。”
共和党参议员琼斯（华盛顿州）表示：“我认为此举可取，但国际事务必须谨慎处理。我不赞成任何可能派遣我国青年前往亚洲的行动。”
沃尔什表态支持
民主党参议员沃尔什（蒙大拿州）称：“我赞同此举，惟憾未及早实施。”
照会未作武力威胁。若日本无视美国警告，舆论压力、联合抵制乃至军事行动都可能成为政府考虑的反制手段。但史汀生迫切希望将交涉维持在友好层面。
回顾1915年日本对华提出“二十一条”时，羸弱的中国被迫屈服。当年威尔逊总统所采取的措施，与今日史汀生之举如出一辙。
史汀生所秉持的对华“门户开放”政策，是美国外交的重要里程碑，其地位几乎与门罗主义比肩。该政策由时任国务卿海约翰于世纪之交首次阐明，主张所有西方国家应在华享有平等贸易机会。这项诞生于列强争瓜分中国衰弱时期的政策，至今仍是美国对华外交的基石。
七七事变之后的有关报道
U. S. Again Backs League—Hull’s Protest to Japan Shows Dispositionto Collaborate.
BY CHARLES NORMAN, Associated Press Starr Writer.
The thunder of Japanese guns outside Mukden the night of September 18, 1931, almost played a funeral march for the League of Nations.
To the League's failure to halt the Nipponese invasion of Manchuria and its subsequent inability to prevent the carving out of the puppet state of Manchoukuo many observers have ascribed the wave of "international lawlessness' that followed. Particuiarly the conquest of Ethiopia, the Spanish civil war, and piracy in the Mediterranean.
The United States, as a signatory of the nine-power treaty guaranteeing the territorial integrity of China, ex-pressed concern in 1931. just as it was to do in the second Sino-Japanese cri-sis this year. In each case, the League denounced Japan's invasion, and in each case the United States concurred in the League's findings.
Since 1931, the American Government has become directly concerned in four international disputes considered at Geneva-the Manchurian crisis; the Bolivia-Paraguay dispute over the Gran Chaco boundary, significant as the first major dispute on the American continent to come before the League; the boundary dispute be-tween Peru and Colombia in which the United States worked hand in hand with the League for a settlement; and the Italo-Ethiopian war In which America invoked its neutrality act.
On September 21, 1931, China ap-pealed to the League under the covenant and to the United States as a signatory of the nine-power treaty. On September 24 Secretary of State Stimson addressed the League thus: “I assure you that the Government of the United States is in whole-hearted sympathy as expressed in the council’s resolution (which called for cessation of hostilities) and will dispatch to Japan and China notes along similar lines.
It was the first direct communication from: the United States, whose non-membership had been a major factor in the life of the League from its inception. The next month, Prentiss Gilbert, American consul at Geneva, sat in on the council's de-liberations as an observer and auditor. On December 10 the League Council adopted a resolution which reaffirmed the resolution calling for cessation of hostilities and evacuation of occupied territory; Invited Information on events in Manchuria and appointed a commission of five to study the situation on the spot.
On December 11, Secretary Stimson issued an indorsement of the League's resolution, later declared the position in American Government’s a strong note to both China and Japan.
Nevertheless, in February, 1931, Japanese troops bombarded Shanghai. On March 11 the League assembly passed a resolution which supported Secretary Stimson's doctrine of non- recognition and opposed settlement of the dispute under millitary pressure.
Japan Declared Aggressor
The Lytton report exonerated China, declared Japan the aggressor, reaffirmed the doctrine of non-recognition and made recommendations for a settlement. The report was denounced by Japan, which took steps to resign from the League. History repeated Itself on October6, 1937, when the League assembly gave its moral support to China, condemned Japan and warned of possible international action unless the Japanese agreed to a peaceful nine-power settlement of her differences with China. Once more war flamed along the North China and Shanghai fronts. 
And on October 8, Secretary of State Cordell Hull, speaking for the United States, concurred in the League's condemnation of Japan. In League circles hope ran high that the collaboration of the United States would present a solid front against aggressor nations.
译文：
美国再度支持国联——赫尔对日抗议展现协作意愿
美联社特派记者 查尔斯·诺曼
1931年9月18日夜，沈阳城外的日本炮火，几乎为国际联盟奏响了葬歌。
众多观察家将此后席卷全球的“国际失序”浪潮——尤其是埃塞俄比亚被征服、西班牙内战及地中海海盗横行——归因于国联未能阻止日本入侵满洲，以及其后无力制止“伪满洲国”的割裂行径。
作为保障中国领土完整的《九国公约》签署国，美国在1931年便已表示关切，正如其在本年度第二次中日危机中所为。两次事件中，国联均谴责日本侵略，而美国亦两次认同国联的调查结论。
自1931年以来，美国政府已直接介入国联审议的四起国际争端：满洲危机；玻利维亚与巴拉圭的格兰查科边界争端（此案意义特殊，系美洲大陆首例提交国联的重大争端）；秘鲁与哥伦比亚边界纠纷（美国曾与国联携手推动解决）；以及意埃战争（美国当时援引了《中立法》）。
1931年9月21日，中国根据《国联盟约》向国联申诉，并依据《九国公约》向美国求援。9月24日，美国国务卿史汀生致函国联表示：“美国政府完全赞同理事会决议（要求停止敌对行动）所体现的精神，并将向中日双方发出主旨相同的照会。”
此系美国首次与国联直接沟通——而美国始终未加入国联，恰是该组织自诞生起的主要制约因素。次月，美国驻日内瓦领事普伦蒂斯·吉尔伯特以观察员和听证员身份列席国联理事会审议。12月10日，国联理事会通过决议：重申要求停火撤军之原则；征集满洲事件情报；任命五人委员会赴当地调查。
12月11日，史汀生国务卿发表声明支持国联决议，其后更以美国政府立场向中日双方发出强硬照会。
然而1932年2月，日军悍然炮击上海。同年3月11日，国联大会通过决议：支持史汀生提出的“不承认主义”，反对在军事压力下解决争端。
日本被裁定为侵略者
《李顿调查团报告》澄清了中国责任，裁定日本为侵略方，重申“不承认主义”并提出解决方案。日本谴责该报告并启动退出国联程序。历史在1937年10月6日重演：国联大会给予中国道义支持，谴责日本行径，并警告若日方拒绝通过和平的《九国公约》框架解决中日冲突，国际社会或将采取行动。此时战火已再度燃遍华北与上海前线。
10月8日，美国国务卿科德尔·赫尔代表美国政府，明确支持国联对日本的谴责。国联内部由此重燃希望：美国的协作或将形成抗击侵略国家的坚固统一战线。
简单解读：聚焦九一八事变后美国与国际联盟（国联）在对日问题上的互动，既体现了美国试图通过多边协作制衡日本扩张的外交尝试，也暴露了国联缺乏强制执行力、美国不愿深度卷入战争的局限性，最终未能阻止日本侵华战争的扩大。
介绍满洲国的报道
MANCHURIA NEWEST WORLD STATE
Washington.—The creation of the world's newest proposed state has just been proclaimed from what heretofore has been known as "Manchuria." The movement sponsor is the projected
government of the northeastern administrative committee. So far, four names have been bestowed on the new state, in rapid succession: Ankuo, Daido (meaning "Great Union"), Manchoukuo  (“Land of Unity”) and Tatung (“Great Unity”). Until a name is finally settled upon, the newterritorial unit might well becalled, descriptively, “Manchuria plus Jehol,” says a bulletin from the National
Geographic society.
  “Although the name of the proposed state seems to shift over night,” continues the bulletin, “Its territorial make-up is reasonably definite. In it are included the three provinces that heretofore have made up Manchuria: Liaoning (also known as Fengtien and as Mukden province), Kirin, and Heilung (also known as Amur province).To these have been added Jehol, hitherto the adjacent province of Inner Mongolia, to the west. The proposed State thus starts with approximately 443,000 square miles, an area almost as great as that of the Union of South Africa.
  “The fledgling state of Manchuria and Jehol lies far in the north and has a severe winter climate.
“In Asia’s new territorial unit is a population of approximately33,500,000, yet large regions are sparsely peopled, The greatest density of population is in Liaoning, the southernmost and, smallest province; and the least density is in Heilung, the northern-most and largest. Among the cultivated sections are some of the most fertile lands to be found in the world. Large areas of tillable land are stillundeveloped.
“The new state is the world’s leading grower of soy beans, producing annually nearly a quarter of a billion bushels. Approximately one-half the production is exported. In the months following harvest, long freight trains loaded with beans, roll ceaselessly down to the ports where ships of every nation wait to transport them to all continents. Tills bean traffic is one of the chief sources of income for the Manchurian railways.
“In addition to beans, there is a heavy production of wheat, millet, maize, and grain sorghum on the rich acres of Manchuria and Jehol. The live stock industry reaches large proportions in some regions. In the north are extensive forests, and farther south are vast coal fields and sizable deposits of iron ore.
“In choosing a capital for the new state, the committee passed over Mukden, long the capital of Manchuria, and Harbin, the metropolis, and designated Changchun (also called Kuanchengtzu), the third city. This choice may have been dictated by a desire to place the administrative activities in a central location; for with the addition of Jehol, Changchun becomes much nearer the geographic center of the new state than Mukden, and much nearer the population center than Harbin.
“Like many other cities of Manchuria, Changchun has an Old Town and a New Town. The New Town has sprung up since 1905 and centers around the imposing station of the Japanese railway. It has plazas and parks, its streets are broad, and its buildings modern. A mile and a third away lies the Old Town, inclosed by a wall, save on the side bounded by a tributary of the Sungari river. The main street is surprisingly wide, but there is marked congestion in other streets. Together, the towns have apopulation of between 80,000 and 100,000.
“Changchun has been called 'the melting pot of Manchuria.' On its streets, constantly with bustle and excitement, one brushes shoulders with Manchus, Mongols, and Chinese, Japanese, Russians, Europeans and Americans. Primitive carts loaded with sacked beans pass in long strings, competing with occasional motor trucks. Passengers ride in Russian droskies, jinrikishas, and American motor cars. 
“Added evidence that Changchun is a melting pot comes when one views a varied houses of worship. There are its Christian churches, Lamaist, and Shinto temples, Mohammedan mosques, Shinto temples, Mohammedan mosques, and numerous shrines. Among the latter is one that might be called a Mammon shrine. It is for the veneration of an oriental god of wealth.”
译文：
满洲：世界最新的“国家”
华盛顿消息——世界上最新“拟建国家”在昔日被称作“满洲”之地宣告成立。发起这一行动的是东北行政委员会这一设想中的政府。到目前为止，这个新“国家”接连被赋予了四个名称：安国、大同（意为 “大联合”）、满洲国（“统一之地”）以及大同（“大统一”）。美国国家地理学会发布的一份公告称，在最终确定名称之前，这个新的地域单元不妨形象地称作“满洲加热河”。
公告还称：“尽管这个拟建‘国家’的名称似乎一夜之间就会变动，但它的领土构成却相当明确。其中包括此前构成满洲的三个省份：辽宁（也曾被称作奉天或盛京省）、吉林和黑龙江（俄语称之“阿穆尔”）。此外，还把此前内蒙古相邻的西部省份热河也纳入其中。因此，这个拟建‘国家’初始面积约为 44.3万平方英里，几乎与南非联邦的面积相当。
“这个新生的‘满洲与热河国’地处极北之地，冬季气候严寒。
“这个亚洲新的地域单元约有 3350 万人口，但大片地区人口稀少。人口密度最大的是最南端且面积最小的辽宁省，人口密度最小的是最北端且面积最大的黑龙江省。在已开垦地区，有一些世界上最肥沃的土地。大片可耕地仍未开发。
“这个新‘国家’是世界主要的大豆种植区，每年产量近 2.5 亿蒲式耳。约一半的产量用于出口。收获后的几个月里，满载大豆的长长的货运列车川流不息地驶向港口，各国船只在那里等待将大豆运往各大洲。大豆运输是满洲铁路的主要收入来源之一。
“除了大豆，满洲和热河肥沃的土地上还大量生产小麦、小米、玉米和高粱。在一些地区，畜牧业规模庞大。北部有广袤的森林，再往南是大片的煤田和相当规模的铁矿储量。
“在为这个新‘国家’选定首都时，委员会没有选择长期作为满洲首府的奉天以及大都市哈尔滨，而是指定了第三大城市长春（也叫宽城子）。做出这一选择可能是出于将行政活动置于中心位置的考虑；因为加上热河后，长春相比奉天更靠近这个新‘国家’的地理中心，相比哈尔滨则更靠近人口中心。
“和满洲的许多其他城市一样，长春有旧城和新城。新城自 1905 年兴起，以日本铁路雄伟的车站为中心。这里有广场和公园，街道宽阔，建筑现代。在 1.5 英里开外是旧城，除了被松花江一条支流环绕的一侧，其余三面都有城墙。主街出奇地宽阔，但其他街道拥堵明显。两座城加起来人口在8万到10万之间。
“长春被称为‘满洲的大熔炉’。在熙熙攘攘、热闹非凡的街道上，人们可以与满族人、蒙古人、中国人、日本人、俄罗斯人、欧洲人和美国人擦肩而过。满载袋装大豆的原始大车排成长队经过，偶尔与机动卡车争道。乘客乘坐俄罗斯的四轮马车、人力车和美国汽车。
“当人们看到各式各样的礼拜场所时，就更能证明长春是个大熔炉。这里有基督教堂、喇嘛庙、神社、清真寺，还有众多神龛。其中有一座可以说是财神龛，是用来供奉一位东方财神的。”
简单解读：这篇新闻介绍了满洲及其首都的情况
关于日本对满洲国统治政策的报道
JAPAN TO SENDSECOND COLONY INTO MANCHURIA
MEMBERS OF EMIGRANT CONTINGENT RECEIVE SPECIALTRAINING FOR NEW DUTIESBEFORE SAILING
By JAMES A. MILL.S (By Assoelated Press)
HARBIN, Manchurin, May 18.—Encouraged by the success of 500former Japanese soldiers who have settled at Chamasu, north of Harbin, the Japanese government on June 23 will send another group of 500 ex-army men to colonize an area 100 miles northeast of here on the Sungara river.
Members of the second emigrant group are receiving special training for their new vocations as farmers and artisans before sailing from Japan.
Radicals Are Barred
Only Japanese men with few or no family ties, able to endure hardships, free from radical tendencies, and below 35 years of age, are eligible as settlers in the new colonies.
It is hoped these nw communities will form the nuelei of large future settlements of Japanese in Manchuria.
All the new colonies will be armed so as to cope with Chinese brigands, with which Manchuria is infested.
Heretofore the Japanese have been reluctant to leave the homeland, for Manchuria. Besides the danger of bandits, there were the rigors of the climate, the lack of comforts, the isolation and the apparent impossibility of competing with the cheap Chinese coolie labor.
Colonies Fight Bandits
But with the gradual suppression of banditry, and with direct material aid frm the home government, Japanese settlers have shown greater readiness to try a new life. The present Japanese colonists in the Chamasu region, have frequently been attacked by Chinese marauders and robbers, but in each case the former Japanese service men have driven off the raiders without themselves suffering serious casualties.
译文：
日本将向满洲派遣第二批移民
移民队伍成员启程前接受新职责专项培训
作者：詹姆斯・A・米尔斯（美联社）
满洲哈尔滨 5 月 18 日电——500 名前日本士兵在哈尔滨以北的佳木斯定居并取得成功，受此鼓舞，日本政府将于 6 月 23 日再派遣 500 名退伍军人，前往此地东北 100 英里处松花江畔的一片区域开拓殖民地。第二批移民队伍的成员在从日本启程前，正接受作为农民和工匠等新职业的专项培训。
激进分子遭拒
只有那些家庭羁绊少或无家庭羁绊、能吃苦耐劳、无激进倾向且年龄在 35 岁以下的日本男性，才有资格成为新殖民地的定居者。日方希望这些新社区能成为未来日本在满洲大规模定居点的核心。所有新殖民地都将配备武装，以应对满洲猖獗的中国“土匪”。此前，日本人一直不愿离开本土前往满洲。除了“土匪”威胁，还有恶劣的气候、生活条件简陋、与世隔绝，以及与廉价中国苦力劳动力竞争显然毫无胜算等因素。
殖民地抗击“土匪”
但随着土匪活动逐渐被镇压，加上日本本土政府的直接物资援助，日本定居者更愿意尝试新生活。目前佳木斯地区的日本殖民者屡遭中国“劫匪”和“强盗”袭击，但每次这些前日本军人都能击退袭击者，自身并未遭受严重伤亡。
Japan Sending 2 New Divisions to USSR Border
Steps for starting mass colonization of Manchuria by Japanese reservists were announced in Tokyo March 24th. This is part of the openly announced plans of Japanese imperialism to convert Manchuria into an armed base against the Soviet Union.
The Japanese Reservists’ Association, a powerful organization headed by reactionary militarists, has been given leadership of the movement. Under the pretext of giving its members a chance to“inspect” on the ground the possibilities for colonization, the association has called its annual conference for Mukden, Manchuria, In June. At least 1,200 delegates are scheduled to attend.
译文：
日本调动新的师团增兵苏满边境
计划开始大规模殖民满洲。三月二十四日东京消息：日本当局已宣布将在满洲开始大规模的殖民活动，将指派在乡军人前往满洲。日本帝国主义公开将满洲转变为侵略苏联的武装根据地，此次殖民计划是这一方案的一部分。
此次计划将由日本在乡军人联合会领导，这是一个由反动军国主义者领导的强大组织。该组织以“视察”殖民可能为名，将于今年六月在满洲奉天召开年会。预计至少有一千二百名代表出席。
关于日本1945年战败的报道
War in Brief
By Associated Press
Russia--Tokyo reports Red armies slashed across both borders of Manchukuo (Manchuria) shortly after declaration of war against Japan became effective at midnight. Attacks from Lupin (Manchouli) 500 miles northwest of Harbin and on a 300 mile front between Hutou and Hunchun on the southeast border threatened Japan’s vaunted Kwantung army on two sides.
Japan--Superforts dropped the second atomic bomb on the important Kyushu city of Nagasaki. Army bombers and fighters, and 1200 carrier planes in fourth day of virtually unceasing aerial pounding of the home islands. Radio Tokyo reported the third fleet was shelling the northern Honshu steel center of Kamaishi.
译文：
二战时期战况简讯
苏联在对日宣战数小时后，从东西两个方向大规模进攻伪满洲国（Manchukuo），突破了位于哈尔滨西北 500 英里的满洲里（Manchouli）和珲春（Hunchun）的边境防线。
日本本土
美军在长崎（Nagasaki）投下了第二颗原子弹，这是继广岛之后对日本本土的又一次核打击。同时，美军还对日本本土（包括东京）进行了持续大规模空袭，B-29 轰炸机和战斗机在四天内出动超 1200 架次，对东京周边及本州南部的鹿岛（Kamishiki）等地进行轰炸。
Japs in Manchuria Bowing to Soviets
By United Press
Jap surrender envoys today prepared to take off for Gen. MacArthur's Manila headquarters and Kwantung Army representatives made contact with the Russians with a view to ending the war in Manchuria.
The Jap surrender party was to take off from Japan at 7 a.m.tomorrow (6 p.m. EWT Saturday)and was due at Manila about nightfall. It will fly to le Shima in two planes, arriving about 12:20 a.m. (11:20 p. m. EWT Saturday).
The party will transfer to an American C-54 transport and continue onto Manila. Actual negotiations will start Monday, Manila time.
In Manchuria an announcement over the Soviet Khabarovsk radio revealed that a Soviet plane had flown to Harbin to pick up a Kwantung army representative who was being returned to Marshal Vassilevsky’s headquarters to make surrender arrangements.
“I have given orders to Soviet forces to cease military operations immediately on all sectors of the front after all operations haves topped on your side,” Vasilevsky informed the Japs.
An Okinawa dispatch reported that. American occupation forces were preparing to move into Japan with complete combat equipment, “ready for any eventuality.” Tokio said the troops were expected “soon.”
ACCEPT INSTRUCTIONS
Jap General Headquarters notified Gen. MacArthur that the peace mission would fly, as requested by him, in two unarmed, twin-engine, single-wing attack planes with white and green markings.
The flight originally had been set for yesterday but Tokio pleaded for more time and MacArthur consented. When the Japanese began bickering over the exact duties of the mission, however, MacArthur brusquely ordered yesterday that the emissaries should proceed “without further delay.” 
NBC said the four envoys would be quartered under guard in the least damaged building in the Philippines capital.
TOKIO BY TUESDAY
The mission will return to Tokio Monday or Tuesday. No arrangements have been announced for the signing of the final surrender terms. 
Meantime other Jap missions-members of the Imperial family were telling Jap troops in Manchuria and China of the Emperor's cease-fire orders. They left Japan yesterday and it probably will take four or five days for them to reach all units.
Hostilities had ceased in China (Page4) but were continuing in Manchuria. On northern Luzon Jap troops refused to believe the Emperor had ordered their surrender and 33 Sixth Division Americans have been killed or wounded since Japan's first peace move.
Russian amphibious forces were reported swarming ashore at a number of new points on the Korean coast ins furious drive to envelop the Jap Kwantung Army. Radio Khabarovsk, voice of the Soviet High Command in the Far East, announced that the Japs still were fighting altho tens of thousands of Manchurian puppet troops were deserting.
Russian amphibious units already had seized the Korean ports of Yuki, Rashin and Seishin, 90, 100 and 140miles south of Vladivostok. The new seaborne drives apparently were aimed at thrusting inland to seal off the base of the peninsula.
SEALING OFF MANCHURIA
Almost 500 miles west other Soviet forces struck hard toward the Yellow Sea coast in a bid to complete the envelopment from that direction. The southern wing of Marshal Malinovsky's Trans-Baikal Army captured the Jehol Province city of Chihfeng,150 miles west of the coast, after a lightning 120-mile advance from the Outer Mongolian border.
A thrust to the sea in that sector would cut off the Japs in Manchuria from their forces in China. Malinovsky's northern wing made somewhat slower progress in its drive for Harbin, advancing 20 miles to take the railway town of Kaitung,210 miles southwest of Harbin.
20,000 PUPPETS CAPTURED
The bulk of the 20,000 prisoners captured yesterday apparently were taken in that sector, where the Japs were believed to have screened the withdrawal of their main forces behind a rear guard of puppet troops. In the Ryukyus teams of Nisei and Jap officer prisoners-of-war were being organized into surrender teams to talk Jap forces on bypassed islands in the Okinawa area into laying down their arms.
The Jap army and navy also broadcast orders to their scattered forces to obey their Emperor's order.
“You must not lose the faith of the world by committing actions on your own free will,” the broadcast said.
LANDING RUMORS NOTED
The broadcast told the Army and Navy to ignore "various rumors that fly among your various units” that American warships already have reached Osaka Bay or Sagami Bay and that landing operations have started. 
The Tokio newspaper Asahi warned the Jap people that should they fail to preserve peace and order after the arrival of American troops, then the occupation forces would be compelled to step in and "strongly interfere in every branch of the central and provincial administration."
Another Tokio broadcast told the Japanese that they would be required to extend all accommodations to Allied troops but that the Allies would not directly commandeer food, living quarters or bank funds.
译文：
《满洲日军向苏军低头》
合众社电
今日，日本投降使节准备启程前往麦克阿瑟将军位于马尼拉的总部，同时关东军代表与苏方取得联系，以期结束满洲战事。
日本投降使团定于明日上午7时（美国东部夏令时周六下午6时）从日本出发，预计傍晚抵达马尼拉。他们将分乘两架飞机飞往屋久岛，约于上午12时20分（美国东部夏令时周六晚上11时20分）抵达。
随后，使团将换乘一架美国C - 54运输机，继续前往马尼拉。实际谈判将于马尼拉时间周一开启。
在满洲，苏联哈巴罗夫斯克电台发布公告称，一架苏联飞机已飞往哈尔滨，接载一名关东军代表，该代表将被送回华西列夫斯基元帅的总部，就投降事宜进行安排。
华西列夫斯基告知日军：“在你们停止所有军事行动后，我已下令苏军在前线各战区立即停止军事行动。”
一则来自冲绳的电讯报道称，美国占领军正准备携带全套战斗装备进驻日本，“做好应对任何突发情况的准备”。东京方面表示，预计美军“很快”抵达。
接受指令
日本陆军总司令部通知麦克阿瑟将军，和平使团将按其要求，乘坐两架带有白色和绿色标识的无武装双引擎单翼攻击机。
此次飞行原定于昨日，但东京方面请求宽限时日，麦克阿瑟予以同意。然而，当日本人就使团具体职责发生争执时，麦克阿瑟昨日强硬下令，使节应“不再拖延，立即出发”。
美国全国广播公司（NBC）称，这四名使节将被安置在菲律宾首都受损最轻的建筑内，并处于看守之下。
周二前返回东京
使团将于周一或周二返回东京。目前尚未公布签署最终投降条款的相关安排。与此同时，其他日本使团——皇室成员正将天皇的停火命令传达给满洲和中国的日本军队。他们昨日离开日本，可能需要四到五天时间才能传达至所有部队。
在中国（第4版报道），敌对行动已经停止，但在满洲仍在继续。在吕宋岛北部，日本军队拒绝相信天皇已下令他们投降，自日本首次做出求和举动以来，已有33名美国第六师士兵伤亡。
据报道，苏联两栖部队在朝鲜海岸多处新地点登陆，疯狂推进，以包围日本关东军。苏联远东最高指挥部的喉舌哈巴罗夫斯克电台宣布，尽管数以万计的满洲伪军正在开小差，但日军仍在战斗。
苏联两栖部队已占领了位于符拉迪沃斯托克（海参崴）以南90英里、100英里和140英里处的朝鲜港口雄基、罗津和清津。这些新的海上行动显然旨在向内陆推进，封锁朝鲜半岛的基部。
封锁满洲
在西部近500英里处，其他苏联部队奋力向黄海海岸推进，试图从该方向完成包围。马林诺夫斯基元帅指挥的外贝加尔方面军的南翼，从外蒙古边境闪电推进120英里后，占领了位于海岸以西150英里的热河省赤峰市。
该地区向海边的推进将切断满洲日军与中国境内日军的联系。马林诺夫斯基方面军的北翼在向哈尔滨推进的过程中进展稍慢，推进20英里后，占领了位于哈尔滨西南210英里处的铁路城镇开鲁。
俘虏两万伪军
昨日俘虏的2万名战俘中，大部分显然是在该地区抓获的。据信，日军在此处利用伪军后卫掩护其主力部队撤退。在琉球群岛，日裔美国人及被俘日本军官组成的投降劝降小组正在组建，他们将劝说冲绳地区被绕过岛屿上的日军放下武器。
日本陆军和海军也向分散的部队广播命令，要求他们服从天皇的命令。
广播称：“你们不可自行其是，以免失去世界的信任。”
留意登陆传闻
广播要求陆军和海军不要理会“在各部队流传的各种谣言”，诸如美国军舰已抵达大阪湾或相模湾，登陆行动已经开始等。
东京《朝日新闻》警告日本民众，若美军抵达后，他们未能维持和平与秩序，那么占领军将不得不介入并“强力干预中央和地方行政的各个部门”。
东京的另一则广播告知日本人，他们需为盟军部队提供一切便利，但盟军不会直接征用食物、住所或银行资金。