英国教科书
教科书AQA 普通中等教育证书历史：理解现代世界（AQA GCSE History: Understanding the Modern World）的相关叙述：
译文：
1.大萧条如何影响各国的国际关系态度
美国：国联阻止一国侵略另一国的手段之一是实施经济制裁。但大萧条让美国不愿出手相助，因为经济制裁会让本国经济雪上加霜。（标语：优先搞本国经济，国际争端放一放）
英国：英国是国联的领导者之一，本应协助其他国家。但和美国一样，它在经济好转前不愿处理国际争端。例如，当日本侵略满洲时，英国毫无作为：既不支持对日本的经济制裁，也未派兵保护满洲。（标语：优先解决英国的经济问题，国际争端放次要位置）
德国：大萧条对德国打击沉重，出现了失业、贫困与混乱。德国的软弱领导层无力应对，于是民众选举阿道夫·希特勒掌权。他对和平毫无兴趣，公然计划侵略德国的邻国，夺回德国在一战中失去的领土。（标语：他会让德国再次强大）
日本：大萧条让日本主要出口产业濒临破产，美国减少了生丝购买，导致日本没钱购买粮食和原材料。日本领导人全是陆军将领，他们决定通过侵占资源更丰富的弱国，来获取所需的原材料。于是日本在1931年侵略了满洲（中国的一部分）。（标语：帝国扩张计划）
意大利：经济问题促使墨索里尼试图建立海外帝国，以此转移民众对政府所面临困境的注意力。
2.满洲危机，1931—1933
In 1931 an incident in Manchuria gave Japan the opportunity it had been looking for to expand the Japanese Empire. As you can see from Figure 10, Japanese army controlled the South Manchurian Railway. In September 1931 they claimed that Chinese soldiers had sabotaged the railway. In retaliation they overran Manchuria and threw out all Chinese forces. In February 1932 Japan set up a puppet government in Manchuria, which did exactly what the Japanese army told it to do. The Japanese renamed the province Manchukuo. Later in 1932 Japanese aero planes and gunships bombed Shanghai. The civilian government in Japan told the Japanese army to withdraw, but its instructions were ignored. It was clear that it was the army and not the government that was in control of Japanese foreign policy.
China appealed to the League of Nations, but Japan claimed it was not invading an aggressor, Japan simply settling a local difficulty. The Japanese argued that China was in such a state of anarchy that they had to invade in self-defence to keep peace in the area. For the League of Nations this was a serious test. Japan was a leading member of the League. It needed careful handling. What should the League do?
There was now a long and frustrating delay, The League's officials sailed round the world to assess the situation in Manchuria for themselves. It was September 1932- a full year after the invasion-before they presented their report. It was detailed and balanced, but the judgement was very clear, Japan had acted unlawfully. Manchuria should be returned to the Chinese.
However, in February 1933, instead of withdrawing from Manchuria, the Japanese announced that they intended to invade more of China. They still argued that this was necessary in self-defence, On 24 February 1933 the report from the League’s officials was approved by 42 votes to 1 in the Assembly. Only Japan voted against. Smarting at the insult, Japan resigned from the League on 27 March 1933. The next week it invaded Jehol (see Figure 10).
The League was powerless. It discussed economic sanctions, but without the USA, Japan's main trading partner, they would be meaningless. Besides, Britain seemed more interested in keeping up good relationships with Japan than in agreeing to sanctions. The League also discussed banning arms sales to Japan, but the member countries could not even agree about that, They were worried that Japan would retaliate and the war would escalate.
There was no prospect at all of Britain and France risking their navies or armies in a war with Japan, Only the USA and the USSR would have had the resources to remove the Japanese from Manchuria by force and they were not even members of the League.
All sorts of excuses were offered for the failure of the League. Japan was so far away. Japan was a special case. Japan did have a point when it said that China was itself in the grip of anarchy.
However, the significance of the Manchurian Crisis was obvious. As many of its critics had predicted, the League was powerless if a strong nation decided to pursue an aggressive policy and invade its neighbours, Japan had committed blatant aggression and got away with it, Back in Europe, both Hitler and Mussolini looked on with interest. Within three years they would both follow Japan's example.
译文：
1931 年，满洲发生的一起事件为日本提供了其一直寻求的扩张日本帝国的契机。从图 10 中你可以看到，日本军队控制着南满铁路。1931 年 9 月，他们宣称中国士兵破坏了铁路。作为报复，他们侵占了满洲，并赶走了所有中国军队。1932 年 2 月，日本在满洲建立了一个傀儡政府，这个政府完全按照日本军队的指令行事。日本将该省重新命名为 “满洲国”。1932 年晚些时候，日本飞机和炮艇轰炸了上海。日本的文官政府要求日本军队撤离，但这一指令被无视。显然，掌控日本外交政策的是军队而非政府。
中国向国际联盟提出申诉，但日本声称自己并非侵略者，只是在解决地方纠纷。日本人辩称，中国处于无政府状态，他们不得不为自卫而入侵，以维持该地区的和平。对国际联盟而言，这是一次严峻的考验。日本是国际联盟的主要成员国，此事需要谨慎处理。国际联盟该怎么做呢？
此时出现了漫长且令人沮丧的拖延。国际联盟的官员乘船环游世界，亲自去评估满洲的局势。直到1932年9月——即入侵发生整整一年后——他们才提交报告。这份报告详尽且客观，但结论非常明确：日本的行为不合法，满洲应归还给中国。
然而，1933年2月，日本不但没有从满洲撤军，反而宣布打算进一步入侵中国。他们仍辩称这是出于自卫的必要。1933年2月24日，国际联盟官员的报告在大会上以42票赞成、1票反对获得通过。只有日本投了反对票。因受此“羞辱”而恼羞成怒的日本，于1933年3月27日退出了国际联盟。第二周，日本便入侵了热河（见图10）。
国际联盟无能为力。它讨论了实施经济制裁，但美国作为日本的主要贸易伙伴不参与的话，制裁将毫无意义。此外，英国似乎更热衷于与日本保持良好关系，而非同意制裁。国际联盟还讨论了禁止向日本出售武器，但成员国甚至对此都无法达成一致。他们担心日本会报复，导致战争升级。
英法两国根本不可能冒着动用海军或陆军的风险与日本开战。只有美国和苏联有足够的实力以武力将日本从满洲赶走，但它们甚至都不是国际联盟的成员。
对于国际联盟的失败，人们给出了各种各样的借口。日本距离遥远，日本情况特殊，日本称中国正处于无政府状态也并非毫无道理。然而，满洲危机的意义显而易见。正如许多批评者所预测的那样，如果一个强国决定推行侵略政策并入侵邻国，国际联盟便无能为力。日本公然发动侵略却未受惩罚。在欧洲，希特勒和墨索里尼都饶有兴致地关注着这一切。不出三年，他们俩也将效仿日本的行径。
教科书《剑桥国际AS水平国际历史：1871-1945 年》（Cambridge International AS Leve International History 1871-1945）的叙述：
1.The impact of Japanese aggression 
When Japanese forces invaded the Chinese province of Manchuria in 1931, Chiang Kai-shek’s KMT government adopted a policy of non-resistance. There were two main reasons for this: 
• The KMT’s control of China was still far from complete. Large parts of the country remained under the control of warlords, while Mao’s CCP had gained a strong foothold in many rural areas. • Weak, divided and lacking a large navy to defend its long coastline, China could not hope to win a war against Japan. manifesto A policy document designed to win support for a political party or group. 
Chiang concentrated his resources on the internal reconstruction of China, and, in particular, on defeating the challenge of communism. This policy was not universally popular within the KMT and, indeed, in December 1936 Chiang was taken prisoner by some of his own troops. These were mainly Manchurians angered by the Japanese invasion. Eventually, Chiang was forced to agree to a new alliance with the CCP in order to provide a national front against the Japanese. When full-scale war broke out between China and Japan in 1937, KMT forces were quickly defeated and forced to retreat westwards, leaving much of eastern China under Japanese control. Mao’s communists, undefeated in their northern mountain bases, began a guerrilla campaign against the Japanese. The CCP portrayed itself as the true party of Chinese nationalism and support for it grew. In 1937, the CCP had five bases controlling some 12 million people; by 1945, it had 19 bases controlling over 100 million.
译文：
日本侵略的影响
1931年，日本军队入侵中国东北省份时，蒋介石领导的国民党政府采取了不抵抗政策。这主要有两个原因：
•国民党对中国的控制远未完全实现。中国大部分地区仍在军阀控制之下，而毛泽东领导的中国共产党已在许多农村地区站稳脚跟。
•中国国力薄弱、内部四分五裂，且缺乏一支庞大的海军来保卫漫长的海岸线，因此无望在与日本的战争中取胜。 
宣言：旨在为某个政党或团体赢得支持的政策文件。
蒋介石将资源集中用于中国的内部重建，尤其是应对共产主义的挑战。这一政策在国民党内部并非得到普遍认同。事实上，1936年12月，蒋介石被他自己的一些部队扣押。这些士兵大多是因日本入侵而激愤的东北人。最终，蒋介石被迫同意与中国共产党结成新的联盟，以建立抗日民族统一战线。1937年，中日全面战争爆发，国民党军队迅速战败，被迫向西撤退，致使中国东部大部分地区落入日本控制。毛泽东领导的共产党人在北方山区根据地未被击败，他们发起了针对日军的游击战。中国共产党将自己塑造为真正代表中国民族主义的政党，支持率不断上升。1937年，中国共产党拥有5个根据地，控制着约1200万人；到1945年，已拥有19个根据地，控制人口超过1亿。
2.Manchuria and the descent into military dictatorship
It was events in Manchuria, a large province of China, that finally caused the collapse of Japanese democracy. Japan had developed extensive trade and investment interests in Manchuria, protected by a military force known as the Kwantung Army.
Note: The Kwantung Army was made up of soldiers deployed in the Japanese-controlled areas of Manchuria to protect the country’s interests in the province. The Kwantung Army damaged a Japanese railway line near Mukden and blamed it on the Chinese. This incident provided the pretext for the invasion of Manchuria.
In September 1931, the Kwantung Army mobilized and, over the next six months, took control of the whole of Manchuria and established the state of Manchukuo in its place. This action was taken without the permission of the Japanese government. After criticizing the invasion the prime minister, Inukai Tsuyoshi, was assassinated by a group of army officers. Emperor Hirohito deplored the attack on Manchuria but steadfastly refused to order the Kwantung Army to withdraw, afraid that his prestige among the population would be damaged if his order was ignored by the army – which it was likely to be. Historians disagree about the reasons why officers of the Kwantung Army made the decision to invade Manchuria in open defiance of their own democratically elected government. Several possible explanations have been put forward:
• The Chinese were trying to reduce Japanese influence over trade and business within Manchuria. This would have been a serious blow to the Japanese economy, already suffering as a result of the worldwide depression. 
• Manchuria was rich in iron ore and coal deposits. To a small, resource poor island nation such as Japan, these were prize assets. 
• Many army officers were concerned about Japan’s vulnerability in the event of any future war. As a small nation dependent on trade, Japan could easily be blockaded into submission. It was thus vital for Japan to achieve economic self-sufficiency, and this could only be done by acquiring new territory. 
• This seemed like the ideal time to invade Manchuria. In 1931, China was distracted by terrible floods and the civil war between and KMT and the CCP. Europe and the USA were busy dealing with their own problems brought on by the Great Depression.
• Japanese army officers were dismayed by the government’s determination to press ahead with cuts to the army and navy. The conquest of Manchuria would demonstrate just how important the army was to Japan’s future. 
• Public opinion in Japan was largely supportive of the Manchurian campaign. As in Italy and Germany, the Depression led to a rise in ultra-nationalist sentiments. To most Japanese, the conquest of Manchuria would provide an economic solution to the Depression – a new market for trade and investment. 
The invasion of Manchuria had profound implications for Japan. It was clear that the already unpopular constitutional government of Japan had lost control of its own armed forces. The emperor’s advisors came to the conclusion that a democratically elected government could no longer provide stability. Following this advice, Emperor Hirohito appointed a National Unity government under Admiral Makoto Saito. In effect, the armed forces assumed control of Japan and the country became a military dictatorship. 
Although the Japanese invasion of Manchuria was criticized by the League of Nations and the USA, neither took any action. This weak international response to such blatant aggression in defiance of international agreements led some of Japan’s military leaders to call for further inroads into China. Others were less convinced, arguing that the first priority was to develop Japanese forces in preparation for a possible attack by the USSR, which was also showing an interest in Manchuria. As this debate continued, Japan withdrew from the League of Nations in March 1933, and rejected arms control. The agreements made at the Washington Naval Conference were no longer valid. In November 1936, Japan signed the Anti-Comintern Pact with Germany, subsequently joined by Italy in 1937 (see page 76).
Note: Many Japanese army officers were convinced that Germany’s defeat in the First World War was the result of the Allied blockade. Potential enemies, such as the USA and the USSR, would find it relatively easy to impose a blockade around Japan, which would hinder essential trade.
译文：
正是中国东北这一大片区域发生的一系列事件，最终导致了日本民主制的崩溃。日本在东北发展了广泛的贸易和投资利益，由一支名为关东军的军事力量负责保护。
注：关东军由部署在日本控制的东北区域的士兵组成，旨在维护日本在该地区的利益。关东军炸毁了奉天（今沈阳）附近的一段日本铁路，并将此事归咎于中国人。这一事件为入侵东北提供了借口。
1931年9月，关东军发动行动，在接下来的六个月里，控制了整个东北，并在当地建立了“满洲国”。这一行动并未得到日本政府的许可。首相犬养毅对此次入侵提出批评后，被一群陆军军官暗杀。裕仁天皇对入侵东北一事表示痛惜，但却坚决拒绝下令关东军撤离，因为他担心若军队无视其命令——而这很有可能发生，他在民众中的威望将会受损。关于关东军军官公然违抗本国民选政府、决定入侵东北的原因，历史学家们意见不一。目前提出了几种可能的解释：
• 中国人试图削弱日本在东北贸易和商业领域的影响力。这对于本就因全球大萧条而遭受重创的日本经济而言，将是沉重一击。
• 东北富含铁矿石和煤炭资源。对于日本这样一个资源匮乏的小岛国来说，这些都是宝贵的资产。
• 许多陆军军官担忧日本在未来可能发生的战争中易受攻击。作为一个依赖贸易的小国，日本很容易因遭到封锁而屈服。因此，对日本来说，实现经济自给自足至关重要，而这只能通过获取新领土来实现。
• 当时似乎是入侵东北的绝佳时机。1931年，中国正忙于应对严重洪灾以及国民党与共产党之间的内战。欧洲和美国则忙于应对大萧条带来的自身问题。
• 日本陆军军官对政府执意削减陆军和海军规模感到沮丧。征服东北将证明陆军对日本未来的重要性。
• 日本国内舆论在很大程度上支持对东北的行动。与意大利和德国一样，大萧条导致日本极端民族主义情绪高涨。对大多数日本人来说，征服东北将为大萧条提供一个经济解决方案——一个新的贸易和投资市场。
入侵东北对日本产生了深远影响。显然，本就不受欢迎的日本立宪政府已失去对本国武装力量的控制。天皇的顾问们得出结论，民选政府已无法维持稳定。遵照这一建议，裕仁天皇任命斋藤实海军大将组建举国一致内阁。实际上，武装力量掌控了日本，日本成为一个军事独裁国家。
尽管日本入侵东北遭到国际联盟和美国的批评，但二者均未采取任何行动。面对这种公然违反国际协定的侵略行为，国际社会反应软弱，这使得一些日本军事领导人呼吁进一步进犯中国。另一些人则不太认同，他们认为首要任务是扩充日本军事力量，以应对苏联可能发动的攻击，因为苏联也对东北表现出兴趣。随着这场争论的持续，日本于1933年3月退出国际联盟，并拒绝军备控制。华盛顿海军会议达成的协议不再有效。1936年11月，日本与德国签署《反共产国际协定》，意大利随后于1937年加入（见第76页）。
注：许多日本陆军军官坚信，德国在第一次世界大战中的战败是协约国封锁的结果。像美国和苏联这样潜在的敌国，相对容易对日本实施封锁，这将阻碍日本至关重要的贸易。
3.The failures of the League of Nations：Example——The Japanese invasion of Manchuria 1931
When Japanese troops invaded Manchuria in 1931 (see pages 121–22), China appealed to the League of Nations, which ordered Japan to withdraw. When Japan refused to comply, the League appointed a commission to investigate the rival claims of China and Japan. The commission, under Lord Lytton, reported in 1932 that there was fault on both sides, and that Manchuria should be governed by the League of Nations. Japan rejected this decision, maintained its forces in Manchuria and withdrew from the League.
Under the terms of its Covenant, the League should have taken action against Japan. However, at the height of the worldwide depression, Britain and France were in no position to impose economic sanctions on Japan – and neither was prepared to go to war over this issue. The League was thus powerless to do anything in response to Japanese aggression.
译文：
1931年日本军队入侵中国东北（见第121 - 122页）时，中国向国际联盟提出申诉，国际联盟下令日本撤军。日本拒绝遵守该命令后，国际联盟任命了一个委员会，对中日双方相互对立的主张展开调查。以李顿勋爵为首的该委员会于1932年报告称，双方都有过错，东北应由国际联盟管辖。日本拒绝接受这一决定，继续在东北驻军，并退出了国际联盟。
根据《国际联盟盟约》条款，国际联盟本应对日本采取行动。然而，在全球大萧条最严重的时候，英国和法国无力对日本实施经济制裁，而且两国都不愿因这一问题发动战争。因此，面对日本的侵略行径，国际联盟无能为力。
4.
It is clear that the USA did indeed follow an isolationist policy between 1919 and 1939. Americans felt that the First World War, which had been unpopular in the USA, had broken out because of disagreements between European nations, and wanted to avoid involvement in European affairs in the future. As a result, the USA rejected both the Paris peace settlement and membership of the League of Nations. In addition, the USA avoided entering commitments with other countries and kept out of international issues such as the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931. That isolationism was still the preferred policy in the late 1930s is confirmed by the fact that President Roosevelt was ignored when he argued that Japan was becoming dangerous to US interests and should be confronted.
译文：
显然，1919年至1939年间，美国确实奉行孤立主义政策。美国人认为，第一次世界大战在美国本就不得人心，而这场战争因欧洲国家间的分歧爆发，所以他们希望日后避免卷入欧洲事务。因此，美国既拒绝接受巴黎和会的解决方案，也拒绝加入国际联盟。此外，美国避免与其他国家做出承诺，对诸如1931年日本入侵中国东北等国际问题也置身事外。20世纪30年代后期，孤立主义仍是美国优先奉行的政策，这一点从以下事实得以证实：罗斯福总统指出日本对美国利益构成威胁，应予以应对，但他的观点无人理会。
教科书《牛津AQA GCSE历史：冲突与紧张—两次世界大战之间的年代1918-1939》（Oxford AQA History for GCSE: Conflict and Tension: The Inter-War Years 1918-1939）的叙述：
1.The Manchurian Crisis
Where is Manchuria?
Manchuria is a region of China on the north-eastern coast. It’s an area that is rich in natural resources such as coal and iron ore, and countries like Japan and Russia had factories there in the 1930s.The Japanese government had a policy of friendship towards the area because of this.
In the 1930s China was divided and weak. The country was split into many regions, often run by local warlords who ignored the national government.
Why did Japan want Manchuria?
Japan was suffering in the Great Depression. Much of its economy was based on exporting silk to rich countries like the USA. However, silk is a luxury item, and people cut back on luxuries when their families were starving. So Japanese industry was in decline and many people were unemployed. By 1932 silk was worth one fifth of what it had been sold for in the early 1920s and production and employment had fallen by 30 per cent by 1931.
Japan is made up of small islands, with very little open space and few natural resources. Therefore, when the Great Depression hit, Japan had to start looking elsewhere for its resources. Manchuria, with its fertile farmland, industry and natural resources, seemed like a good place to invade because:
Manchuria is geographically close to Japan.
Japan already had large industries, the South Manchurian Railway, and an army known as the Kwantung Army in the area. This foothold would make invasion easier.
There was a history of confusion about who owned the area. Russia, Japan and China had all claimed it in the past. In 1931 it was ruled by a Chinese warlord, but his power was weakening. Japan was scared that China might kick out Japanese industry.
Japan had fought a war against Russia in 1905Taking over this land would upset their old enemies as well as distract the Japanese people from domestic problems.
The Japanese army was getting stronger and stronger. After the Washington Naval Agreement in1922, when Japanese politicians had agreed that Japan would have a smaller navy than Britain or the USA, Japanese generals felt that they could no longer trust their politicians to protect their country They started acting without instructions from the government: in 1928 they assassinated the warlord of Manchuria. They thought the government's policy of friendship with Manchuria was wrong and that they should invade the area and take full control. The people of Japan were desperate for some good news and started supporting the army in the hope that Japan would become strong again.
The Japanese army had murdered its prime minister in 1932, and the government then became dominated by army generals who could force them to take more aggressive actions; the politicians were scared of the army
The Mukden（奉天） Incident
The Japanese army wanted to take over Manchuria. Here's how they found an excuse to attack...
译文：
满洲危机
满洲在哪里？
满洲是中国东北沿海的一个地区。这里自然资源丰富，蕴藏着煤炭和铁矿石等。20世纪30年代，日本和俄罗斯等国在该地区设有工厂。正因如此，日本政府对这一地区奉行友好政策。
20世纪30年代，中国处于分裂且国力衰弱的状态。国家被分割成众多区域，这些区域往往由无视中央政府的地方军阀统治。
日本为何觊觎满洲？
日本在大萧条中深受其害。其经济很大程度上依赖于向美国等富裕国家出口丝绸。然而，丝绸属于奢侈品，当人们连家人的温饱都难以保障时，便会削减对奢侈品的消费。因此，日本工业陷入衰退，大量人口失业。到1932年，丝绸价格仅为20世纪20年代初的五分之一，截至1931年，丝绸产量和就业人数下降了30%。
日本由众多小岛组成，土地空间极为有限，自然资源也十分匮乏。所以，当大萧条来袭，日本不得不开始寻求其他资源获取地。满洲拥有肥沃的农田、发达的工业和丰富的自然资源，似乎是一个理想的入侵目标，原因如下：
- 满洲在地理位置上与日本相近。
- 日本在该地区已经拥有大型企业、南满铁路，以及一支名为关东军的军队。这些基础条件使得入侵更为容易。
- 关于该地区的归属权一直存在争议。俄罗斯、日本和中国过去都曾宣称对其拥有主权。1931年，满洲由一位中国军阀统治，但他的势力正逐渐衰弱。日本担心中国可能会驱逐日本企业。
- 1905年，日本曾与俄罗斯交战。占领这片土地既能打击宿敌，又能转移日本民众对国内问题的关注。
- 日本军队势力日益壮大。1922年《华盛顿海军条约》签订后，日本政客同意日本海军规模小于英国和美国，日本将领们觉得不能再指望政客们保卫国家。于是，他们开始自行其是，不受政府指令约束：1928年，他们暗杀了满洲的军阀。他们认为政府与满洲友好的政策是错误的，应该入侵并完全控制该地区。日本民众迫切渴望听到好消息，开始支持军队，期望日本能再度强大。
- 1932年，日本军队刺杀了首相，此后政府被陆军将领掌控，这些将领能够迫使政府采取更具侵略性的行动，而政客们对军队心怀畏惧。
九一八事变（The Mukden Incident）
日本军队企图占领满洲。以下便是他们寻找攻击借口的过程……
2.How did the League react to the Manchurian crisis?
When China found that Japan had invaded Manchuria they turned to the League of Nations to investigate. It looked like a clear case of aggression: Japan had invaded Manchuria and was in the wrong. One of the most powerful members of the League had undermined the covenant. What would the League do next?
Why was the League reluctant to act?
Although it was a clear case of Japanese aggression, the League did not want a big fight. Many people felt that Japan owned Manchuria and was entitled to take control-the Chinese had even agreed in treaties that Japan had economic rights in the region.
China and Japan were far removed from the League’s headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, Britain and France felt that the incident was simply too far away to be of real concern.
Japan had been a powerful member of the League. The Japanese claimed that the Chinese had attacked them first; there was so much confusion about the episode that many people chose to believe the Japanese version of events so that they didn't have to get involved.
China's politics were disorganised, Many members of the League felt that it was a good thing that Japan was trying to introduce order in the region.
The League issued a moral condemnation and told Japan to withdraw its troops, but when Japan refused there was really very little the League could do about it:
Members of the League could not afford to send troops so far away to fight someone else's battles. indeed, Britain and France were still facing depression.
The League could issue economic sanctions so that members would stop trading with Japan. However, Japan's main trade partner was the USA, which was not a member of the League.
The nearest powerful country to Manchuria was the USSR, but since it had not been allowed to join the League of Nations it could not be called upon to help.
So what did the League do?
The League put together a Commission of Inquiry, led by a British politician named Lord Lytton. Lytton went to the area, investigated what had happened, and put together the Lytton Report, which was published in 0ctober 1932.lt concluded what people already knew: Japan was in the wrong. Even if there had been an attack on the South Manchurian Railway, Japan had overreacted and should not have invaded.
The League's findings were official but Japan still ignored them and left the League. In February 1933 the Japanese invaded Jehol, another Chinese region. They then used these two areas as a base to invade the rest of the country in 1937. By 1938 most major Chinese cities were controlled by the Japanese army.
The end of the League?
The League had failed. One of its own members had ignored the Covenant and acted with aggression. The League had acted slowly and had, ultimately, achieved nothing. And yet the long-term damage to the League was limited; many people believed that if there was a problem involving European countries, the League would still be able to deal with it.
At the time, many people did not see the failure of the League in Manchuria as a ‘fatal blow’. The League had, however, failed to stop an act of war, and in Italy and Germany Mussolini and Hitler began to wonder how they might be able to get around the League, too.
译文：
国际联盟对满洲危机作何反应？
当中国发现日本入侵满洲后，便向国际联盟求助，希望其展开调查。这显然是一起侵略事件：日本入侵满洲，理亏的一方是日本。作为国际联盟最具影响力的成员国之一，日本破坏了《国际联盟盟约》。那么，国际联盟接下来会怎么做呢？
国际联盟为何不愿采取行动？
 - 尽管这显然是日本的侵略行为，但国际联盟并不想引发大规模冲突。许多人认为日本对满洲拥有权益，有权进行控制，毕竟中国在条约中甚至认可了日本在该地区的经济权利。
 - 中国和日本距离国际联盟位于瑞士日内瓦的总部十分遥远，英国和法国觉得这一事件发生地过于偏远，实在无需过多关注。
 - 日本曾是国际联盟的重要成员国。日本声称是中国先发动攻击，这一事件引发诸多混淆，以至于许多人选择相信日本的说辞，这样他们就无需介入其中。
 - 中国的政治局势混乱无序，国际联盟的许多成员国认为，日本试图在该地区建立秩序，这未尝不是件好事。
国际联盟发布了道义上的谴责，并要求日本撤军，但当日本拒绝执行时，国际联盟实际上也无能为力：
 - 国际联盟的成员国无力派遣军队远赴他乡为他国作战。事实上，英国和法国当时仍深陷经济大萧条之中。
 - 国际联盟可以实施经济制裁，让成员国停止与日本的贸易往来。然而，日本的主要贸易伙伴是美国，而美国并非国际联盟成员。
 - 距离满洲最近的强国是苏联，但由于苏联未被允许加入国际联盟，所以无法指望它提供帮助。
那么国际联盟采取了什么行动呢？
国际联盟组建了一个调查委员会，由英国政治家李顿勋爵领导。李顿前往该地区，对事件展开调查，并撰写了《李顿报告》，于1932年10月发布。报告得出的结论众人早已知晓：日本理亏。即便南满铁路曾遭受袭击，日本的反应也过激了，本不应发动入侵。
国际联盟的调查结果是官方认定的，但日本依旧对此置之不理，并退出了国际联盟。1933年2月，日本入侵中国的另一个地区——热河。随后，他们以这两个地区为据点，于1937年入侵中国其他地区。到1938年，中国大多数主要城市都被日本军队控制。
国际联盟的终结？
国际联盟失败了。其成员国之一无视《盟约》，发动侵略。国际联盟行动迟缓，最终一事无成。不过，对国际联盟的长期损害是有限的；许多人认为，如果涉及欧洲国家的问题出现，国际联盟仍有能力处理。
在当时，许多人并未将国际联盟在满洲问题上的失败视为“致命一击”。然而，国际联盟未能阻止一场战争行为，在意大利和德国，墨索里尼和希特勒开始盘算着他们要如何绕开国际联盟行事。
剑桥世界史
CHAPTER IX
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS: Japan's invasion of Manchuria (1931)
With the coming of the great economic depression of 1929 and the following years, the League's short period of optimism came to an end. In 193I for the first time since 1923 it was faced with action by a great power that soon came to be seen as a direct violation of the Covenant. In September of that year Japanese troops guarding the South Manchuria Railway attacked and rapidly disarmed the Chinese garrisons in Mukden and neighbouring towns and drove out the provincial Chinese government. They claimed to be acting in defence of their interests and nationals in the South Manchuria Railway zone which were being threatened by China. The reality of this threat seemed plausible, since the Kuomintang government was bent on ridding China of foreign privileges and concessions, among them those of other leading League members. Japan's record in the League had hitherto been excellent, and in the absence of accurate in-formation her representative's protestations were at first accepted at their face value. By the end of December, when the Japanese army had completed its overrunning of Manchuria, and when the genuine asseverations of the Japanese government that they intended no such thing had been shown to be irrelevant to the action of the army, it was already too late for effective action.
China had immediately appealed to the League under Article XI (see chapter XXⅢ). The Council's first idea of sending a commission of enquiry was abandoned in face of Japanese opposition and a United States refusal to cooperate. The Council then endeavoured to persuade Japan to with-draw her troops within the railway zone, and was assured that this would be done. By mid-October, however, it was clear that, far from with-drawing, the troops were still advancing, so on 24 October the Council proposed to fix a date by which the withdrawal was to be completed. The League’s position had, it seemed, been strengthened by the agreement of the United States to allow a representative to sit in on the Council, but the representative was instructed to speak only when matters arising from the Kellogg-Briand pact were under discussion, and in fact he opened his mouth only once after the initial courtesies attendant upon his appearance. The Japanese delegate voted against the 24 October resolution and thus, under recent views of Article XI, nullified its legal validity. The Article XI conciliation procedure was thus shown to be wholly ineffective against a great power determined to have its way. As a last resort in December the Council belatedly decided to send a commission of enquiry of the five major powers (Britain, France, Germany, Italy and the United States), Japan concurring once China's sole condition that Japanese troops should first be withdrawn into the railway zone had been overridden.  
Before the commission started the situation had deteriorated. Early inI932 an anti-Japanese boycott and riots broke out in Shanghai, and Japan retaliated by bombing and moving in troops which were not withdrawn for several months. Three days earlier the Chinese had appealed under Article xv, thereby confronting the League with the possibility of the members finding themselves obligated to impose sanctions on Japan under Article xvI. They asked also, as the Covenant entitled them to do, that the appeal should be transferred to the Assembly, where the small powers, who felt their safety to depend on effective collective security, were in a large majority. A special Assembly met accordingly in March, resolved that it would not recognise changes brought about by means contrary to the Covenant or to the Kellogg-Briand pact, established a special committee to take over from the Council the task of seeking a settlement of the dispute (the first time that a specific political problem had thus been transferred), but decided, as it could hardly fail to do, to await the report of the Lytton commisssion of enquiry (so named after its British chairman).These many delays facilitated the maturing of the Japanese plans, and when at last the commission arrived in Manchuria it learnt that Japan had established a puppet government for a newly constituted 'independent' state of Manchukuo. The commission's report was received in Geneva in September and was considered successively by the Council and the Assembly. It was an authoritative document, giving full and fair consideration to the anomalous situation in Manchuria, but generally condemnatory of the scale of the Japanese action, and insistent in particular that China should be sovereign in Manchuria. The report was accepted in its mainlines by the Assembly in February 1933, and a month later Japan gave notice of resignation from the League. There were, however, no means of enforcing the terms of the settlement proposed in the report, and the question of sanctions at this date simply could not arise even had the Assembly found, as it did not, that Jaran had resorted to war in disregard Aggression had been committed with impunity. The confidence of the smaller powers in the League had been gravely shaken, and a rift had developed between them and the major powers. The weakness of the collective security system as the great power members of the League were prepared to operate it had been mercilessly exposed.
译文：
国际联盟：日本入侵满洲（1931年）
随着1929年及其后几年大萧条的降临，国际联盟短暂的乐观时期也告终结。1931年，国联自1923年以来首次面对一个大国的行动，而这一行动很快被视为对《盟约》的直接违反。当年9月，驻守南满铁路的日本军队袭击并迅速解除了沈阳及周边城镇中国驻军的武装，驱逐了当地的中国省政府。日方声称此举是为保护其在南满铁路区域的利益与侨民，因该区域正遭受中国威胁。考虑到国民党政府正竭力废除外国在华特权与租界（其中亦涉及其他主要国联成员国），此种威胁似乎言之成理。日本此前在国联的记录无可指摘，加之缺乏准确情报，其代表的说辞最初被采信。至12月底，当日军全面占领满洲，而日本政府关于"绝无此意"的诚挚声明被证明与军方行动完全脱节时，采取有效行动为时已晚。
中国当即根据《盟约》第十一条（参见第二十三章）向国联申诉。行政院最初拟派遣调查团，但因日本反对及美国拒绝合作而搁置。随后行政院努力说服日本将部队撤回铁路区域，并得到日方承诺。然而到10月中旬，日军非但未撤，反而持续推进。遂于10月24日，行政院提议设定完成撤军的最后期限。此时美国同意派代表列席行政院会议，似乎增强了国联的立场；但该代表仅被授权在涉及《凯洛格-白里安公约》事宜时发言，事实上除初次列席礼节性致辞外全程缄默。日本代表对10月24日决议投反对票，根据当时对第十一条的解释，此举使决议丧失法律效力。由此可见，第十一条的调解程序对于一意孤行的大国完全无效。12月，行政院最终决定派遣由五大国（英、法、德、意、美）组成的调查团——此时日本表示同意，前提是中国提出的"日军须先撤回铁路区域"这一唯一条件被否决。
调查团启程前局势持续恶化。1932年初上海爆发反日抵制运动与骚乱，日本以轰炸及派兵进驻报复，数月未撤。此前三日，中国已根据第十五条提出申诉，迫使国联面临成员国可能须依第十六条对日实施制裁的局面。中国同时要求将申诉移交大会——根据《盟约》赋予的权利，此举旨在争取占多数的中小国家支持，这些国家认为自身安全有赖于有效的集体安全机制。特别大会于3月召开，决议不承认违反《盟约》或《凯洛格-白里安公约》造成的领土变更，并设立特别委员会从行政院接管调解争端之责（此为特定政治问题首次移交大会处理）。但大会不得不决定等待李顿调查团（以其英国团长命名）的报告。这些拖延使日本计划得以完善：调查团抵达满洲时，日本已为新建立的"独立"国家"满洲国"组建了傀儡政府。
调查报告于9月送达日内瓦，经行政院与大会审议。这份权威文件充分考量了满洲的特殊现状，但总体上谴责日本行动的规模，尤其坚持中国对满洲的主权。1933年2月大会通过了报告主体内容，一月后日本宣布退出国联。然而报告所提解决方案无从实施，且即便大会认定日本诉诸战争（事实上未认定），此时制裁问题亦无从谈起。侵略行径未受惩罚，中小国家对国联的信心严重动摇，它们与大国之间产生裂痕。国联集体安全体系在其主要成员国操控下的脆弱性被无情揭露。
CHAPTER XII
CHINA, JAPAN AND THE PACIFIC 1900-1931: The Manchurian question
In January 1927, when the Nationalist advance into north China seemed imminent, the Japanese Foreign Minister, Shidehara Kijuro, made a statement of policy in very general terms. The Japanese government, like those of Britain and the United States, declared that the Chinese should be left to settle their internal differences and affirmed its willingness to consider sympathetically Chinese demands. But it also stressed the need for close economic co-operation between the two countries and for the protection of Japanese interests. This statement, by its very generality, left Japan with ample scope for manoeuvre; and, within the next few months, several events occurred that led to an increasing emphasis upon its more positive precepts and implications. In April a new government took office in Tokyo, led by Tanaka Giichi, a man of military background, who was firmly committed to the maintenance of Japan's position in Manchuria. A little earlier Nationalist soldiers had attacked foreigners and damaged foreign property in Nanking. Responsibility for these attacks was attributed to the Communist—and thus Russian-inspired—section of the movement. Japan was therefore able, without inconsistency, to give positive support to the Nationalist right wing, led by Chiang Kai-shek.
  The January statement had not specifically mentioned Japanese interests in Manchuria. Essentially, Japan was concerned with the protection of her right to dominate the Manchurian economy and to integrate it with her own and with the maintenance of the administrative and other services that were necessary to the fulfilment of her economic objectives. A considerable range of views was held in Japanese circles as to how these interests could best be protected; but it was everywhere taken for granted that the Manchurian problem should be handled separately from that of relations with China proper.
  Though Japanese leaders thus considered that the Manchurian problem was, in itself, of a special character, they recognised that their solution of it would affect their relations not only with China but also with the Western powers. For this reason, their thinking was influenced by consideration both of existing relationships and of expectations regarding the future. Those who were anxious not to disturb Japan's close links with the United States found in this, for example, a strong ground for favouring a solution that would leave substantial authority in the hands of a Chinese or Manchurian administration. Those, on the other hand, who believed that war with the United States was eventually inevitable regarded complete control as essential to Japan’s defence. Differences of this kind, coupled with the vested interests of the military and civil groups concerned in the exercise of Japan's rights in Manchuria, greatly complicated the development of a clear-cut policy.
  When the Chinese Nationalist army continued its move northward in 1928, the question of Manchuria became an urgent one for the government of Japan. Faced with the likelihood that Nationalist troops would soon reach the Manchurian border, it issued a statement of its own position. The Nationalists should not enter Manchuria and would be opposed by Japanese forces if they did so. Chang Tso-lin should retire from Peking but be permitted to form a separate government in Manchuria. On many grounds, this was a blatantly disingenuous proposal that ill concealed Japanese determination to detach Manchuria from China and control it through a puppet administration. But, up to a point, it was acted upon. The Nationalists, as their advance brought them towards Peking, offered to allow Chang Tso-lin and his forces to withdraw peacefully into Manchuria. Since his regime faced imminent collapse, Chang accepted the offer; but, when he reached Manchuria, the railway carriage in which he was travelling was blown up by Japanese army officers.
  The Nationalist occupation of Peking marked the attainment, in a formal sense, of the objective towards which the revolutionary movement had been working since the formation of the Tung-meng-hui in 1905. China possessed a government that could claim jurisdiction over the whole of the country and that was committed to handling its relations with foreign powers on terms of equality. In reality, however, the Nationalists were still confronted by formidable difficulties. The leaders of the new government were deeply divided on basic issues of domestic policy. The government's actual authority in the provinces was very limited, so that it could neither obtain the revenue from land taxes nor disarm the private armies of the former war-lords; and in relation to Manchuria its position remained a particularly difficult one. At the end of 1928, after the failure of Japanese efforts to prevent it, the reunion of China and Manchuria was brought about; but the Manchurian government retained a large measure of autonomy, and the presence of the Japanese in the region created a further impediment to Chinese control. The internal weakness of the government did not prevent it, however, from adopting a strong foreign policy.
  Soon after the occupation of Peking, the Nationalist government declared its intention of terminating all unequal treaties. This action evoked a generally sympathetic response. In accordance with their earlier policy statements, the Western powers signed new treaties that restored tariff autonomy to China; and, in doing so, they accorded recognition to the new regime. In the case of the United States, support for the government went considerably further. American advisers were sent to China; and American business interests provided financial and technical assistance.
  Japanese policy towards China was both more complex and less un equivocal. The assassination of Chang Tso-lin had been an attempt by a section of the army to push the Japanese government further than it was prepared to go. Its organisers had hoped that it would create disorder in Manchuria and thus lead to the establishment of Japanese military control. In the event, they merely reinforced existing Chinese suspicions of their country's intentions, since neither the Japanese nor the Chinese government was willing to precipitate a crisis.
  The position of the Tanaka cabinet was a difficult one. It believed that the protection of Japanese interests in Manchuria required both an improvement in the country's relations with the Western powers and a curbing of the intransigence, and growing insubordination, of the army. But the powers had been alienated by the high-handed actions of the army; and the latter's support for an aggressive policy was strengthened by the evident unwillingness of the powers to act jointly with Japan. In these circumstances, the cabinet decided that it was essential to establish a close working relationship with the Chinese Nationalists. When Manchuria was reunited with China, the Japanese government therefore accepted the development without protest. Meanwhile, it had begun discussions with the Chinese regarding the restoration of tariff autonomy and the settlement of other matters that were in dispute between them. When agreement in principle was reached on these issues, it was followed by Japan's formal recognition of the new regime in China.
  Shortly after this development occurred, Tanaka resigned from office. For some time he had been faced with growing opposition, as a result of his inability to bring to trial the officers responsible for the assassination of Chang Tso-lin. The new Prime Minister, Hamaguchi Osachi, and his cabinet were even more firmly committed to a policy of moderation in Manchuria and to seeking the co-operation of the Western powers. Primarily, they were influenced by economic considerations. They believed that the long-term interests of Japan would best be served by exposing its economy more fully to the ordinary pressures of international trade. They therefore removed restrictions on the export of gold and, by doing so, increased the country's dependence, during the subsequent period of adjustment, on the support of other major trading nations. But the new policy, by placing less emphasis on the economic links between Japan and Manchuria, directly affected the government's attitude towards China. The most important consequence of this diminished concern with the maintenance of special privileges was the replacement of the general agreement that had previously been reached on tariff autonomy by a formal treaty.
  For the government of China, the treaty with Japan marked the successful conclusion of its struggle for control of the tariff. But it had been no less concerned with the removal of restrictions upon its jurisdiction over foreigners.1 In April 1929 it had addressed notes to Britain, the United States and France seeking an early termination of extra-territoriality. During the following months, the powers made it clear that, while they favoured the gradual reduction of extra-territorial rights, they were not prepared to agree to their complete abrogation almost immediately, as desired by the Chinese. Their reservations were strengthened by the brash actions of the Chinese government at this time against Russian consular and railway officials in Manchuria, which precipitated a brief armed conflict with the Soviet Union. And in 1930 and 1931, when the renewal of civil war in China emphasised both the tenuousness of the government's authority and the continued insecurity of foreign residents, their doubts increased as to whether the time was ripe for any radical change. None the less, negotiations were continued; and by the summer of 1931 both Britain and the United States had reached a substantial measure of agreement with China. In September, however, Japanese troops seized the city of Mukden, in Manchuria. The tragic significance of this event was quickly recognised: it weakened the position of the government of China far more disastrously than the disturbances of the immediately preceding years. Discussions on the ending of extra-territoriality were therefore suspended till the return of more settled times.
  The resort to violence in Manchuria was not the result of a change in the policy of the Japanese government. The cabinet had not abandoned the economic and foreign policies that it had espoused on its accession to office in 1929; but the acceptability of those policies, and hence the effectiveness of the government itself, had been undermined by events. Japan's return to the gold standard had been closely followed by the onset of the world depression. The effect on the Japanese economy of falling prices and contracting markets was thus exacerbated by its recently increased exposure to world pressures. Nor could Japan obtain assistance from the United States or Britain, since they too were facing economic crises. The decline in incomes and employment was widely attributed to the defects of the government and its policies.
  The growth of popular opposition greatly strengthened the hand of the military. The view that Japan's survival depended on the strengthening of her armed forces and the consolidation of her position in China, rather than upon her co-operation with the Western powers, now possessed mass support. High-ranking officers, both in Tokyo and in Manchuria, therefore prepared to take revolutionary action. A plot to overthrow the government in May 1931 had failed. But the seizure of Mukden on the night of 18-19 September marked the beginning of a period of military
dominance in Japan.
  At the beginning of the twentieth century, the international politics of the Far East and the Pacific had been dominated by the Western powers. By the 1930s those powers were, at most, reluctant imperialists. In China, their surviving privileges were retained mainly because the Chinese had been unable to resolve their internal problems. In the islands of the South Pacific, the continuance of their administrative responsibilities merely reflected their acceptance of common assumptions regarding the capacity of' backward' peoples to govern themselves. In Australia and New Zealand, the residual powers that were still possessed by Britain were retained at the request of the governments of those two countries, which had been unwilling to accept the removal of restrictions upon their sovereignty that the Statute of Westminster made available to them.
But the role that had once been theirs was now being assumed by Japan. The seizure of Mukden was followed by the complete conquest of Manchuria and the creation of the puppet state of Manchukuo. Intervention by the League of Nations, with the intention of restoring the sovereignty of China under conditions that would provide protection for Japanese rights and interests, was angrily opposed by Japan and led to her resignation from the organisation. These actions further reduced political stability in the Far East. Since domestic political circumstances made withdrawal impossible, Japan in evitably extended the scope of her aggression. To counter increasing Chinese hostility, the Japanese built up their position in Inner Mongolia and in the north-eastern provinces of China proper by a combination of military action and political intrigue. In 1937 an armed exchange between Chinese and Japanese troops near Peking precipitated a full-scale invasion of China. The Nationalist government, forced to flee westward, established a new capital at Chungking; and in 1940 Japan installed a puppet regime at Nanking.
Japanese imperialism had reached maturity, however, at a period in which major international conflicts could be resolved only on a world scale. The seizure of Mukden and its consequences had encouraged both Italy and Germany similarly to flout world opinion; and with both these powers Japan made pacts. Japanese policy towards China was thus a major cause of the second world war; and its ultimate success or failure became a matter which only the results of that war could determine.
译文：
1927 年1月，当国民革命军似乎即将进军华北时，日本外相币原喜重郎发表了一项措辞极为笼统的政策声明。日本政府与英美两国政府一样，宣称应让中国人自行解决内部分歧，并申明愿意同情地考虑中国的要求。但它同时强调两国密切经济合作以及保护日本利益的必要性。这项声明因其笼统性，为日本留下了充分的回旋余地。在接下来的几个月里，发生了几件事，导致日本愈发强调其更积极的准则及内涵。4 月，由军人出身的田中义一领导的新政府在东京上台，他坚决致力于维护日本在满洲的地位。稍早些时候，国民革命军士兵在南京袭击外国人并破坏外国财产。这些袭击事件被归咎于该运动中受共产党 ——进而受俄国鼓动的部分。因此，日本能够毫无矛盾地积极支持由蒋介石领导的国民党右翼。
1月的声明并未具体提及日本在满洲的利益。本质上，日本关注的是保护其主宰满洲经济并将其与本国经济整合的权利，以及维持实现其经济目标所必需的行政及其他事务。日本各界对于如何最好地保护这些利益存在相当多的不同观点；但人们普遍认为，满洲问题应与处理同中国本土的关系分开对待。
尽管日本领导人认为满洲问题本身具有特殊性，但他们认识到，对该问题的解决不仅会影响与中国的关系，还会影响与西方列强的关系。因此，他们的思考既受现有关系的考量影响，也受对未来预期的影响。例如，那些急于不破坏日本与美国紧密联系的人，认为这是支持将大量权力留在中国或满洲行政当局手中这一解决方案的有力理由。另一方面，那些认为与美国最终不可避免会发生战争的人，则认为完全控制对于日本的防御至关重要。这类分歧，再加上军事及文职团体在行使日本在满洲权利方面的既得利益，极大地使制定明确政策变得复杂起来。
1928年，当中国国民革命军继续向北推进时，满洲问题对日本政府来说变得紧迫起来。面对国民革命军可能很快抵达满洲边境的情况，日本发表了一份关于自身立场的声明。国民革命军不应进入满洲，若进入将遭到日本军队的反对。张作霖应从北京撤退，但可被允许在满洲组建一个独立政府。从多方面来看，这是一个公然虚伪的提议，它难以掩饰日本将满洲从中国分离出去并通过傀儡政权加以控制的决心。但在一定程度上，这一提议得到了实施。随着国民革命军的推进逼近北京，他们提出允许张作霖及其部队和平撤回满洲。由于张作霖的政权面临即将崩溃的局面，他接受了这一提议；但当他抵达满洲时，他乘坐的火车车厢被日本军官炸毁。
国民革命军占领北京，从形式上标志着自1905年同盟会成立以来革命运动一直为之奋斗的目标得以实现。中国拥有了一个可宣称对全国拥有管辖权且致力于在平等基础上处理对外关系的政府。然而，实际上，国民党仍面临巨大困难。新政府的领导人在国内政策的基本问题上存在严重分歧。政府在各省的实际权力非常有限，既无法从土地税中获得收入，也无法解除前军阀的私人武装；而在满洲问题上，其处境尤其艰难。1928年底，在日本阻止失败后，中国与满洲实现了重新统一；但满洲政府保留了很大程度的自治权，而且日本在该地区的存在进一步阻碍了中国的控制。然而，政府内部的虚弱并未阻止它采取强硬的外交政策。
占领北京后不久，国民政府宣布打算废除所有不平等条约。这一行动引发了普遍的同情回应。根据其先前的政策声明，西方列强签署了新条约，恢复了中国的关税自主权；这样做的同时，它们承认了新政权。就美国而言，对该政府的支持更为深入。美国向中国派遣了顾问；美国商业利益集团提供了资金和技术援助。
日本对中国的政策更加复杂且不那么明确。张作霖遇刺是部分日军试图推动日本政府采取比其原本准备采取的更为激进行动的尝试。组织者希望这能在满洲制造混乱，从而导致日本军事控制的建立。结果，他们只是加深了中国人对日本意图已有的怀疑，因为无论是日本政府还是中国政府都不愿引发危机。
田中内阁的处境艰难。它认为，保护日本在满洲的利益既需要改善日本与西方列强的关系，又需要遏制军队的强硬态度及日益增长的抗命行为。但军队的专横行为已使列强产生反感；而且由于列强明显不愿与日本共同行动，军队对侵略政策的支持得到加强。在这种情况下，内阁决定与中国国民党建立密切的合作关系至关重要。因此，当满洲与中国重新统一时，日本政府没有抗议便接受了这一发展。与此同时，日本已开始与中国就恢复关税自主权及解决其他争端问题进行讨论。在这些问题上原则性地达成一致后，日本正式承认了中国的新政权。
这一发展发生后不久，田中义一辞职。一段时间以来，由于他无法审判应对张作霖遇刺负责的军官，他面临着越来越多的反对。新首相滨口雄幸及其内阁更坚定地致力于在满洲实行温和政策并寻求西方列强的合作。主要是经济因素影响了他们。他们认为，让日本经济更充分地承受国际贸易的正常压力，最符合日本的长期利益。因此，他们取消了对黄金出口的限制，这样一来，在随后的调整时期，日本更加依赖其他主要贸易国家的支持。但新政策由于对日本与满洲之间经济联系的重视程度降低，直接影响了政府对中国的态度。对维持特殊特权关注度降低的最重要后果是，先前就关税自主权达成的一般性协议被一项正式条约所取代。
对中国政府而言，与日本签订的条约标志着其争取关税控制权的斗争取得了成功。但它同样关注取消对其管辖外国人权力的限制。1929年4月，它向英国、美国和法国发出照会，寻求早日废除治外法权。在接下来的几个月里，列强表明，虽然他们赞成逐步减少治外法权，但并不准备像中国所希望的那样几乎立即同意完全废除。此时中国政府针对满洲的俄国领事及铁路官员的鲁莽行动，引发了与苏联的短暂武装冲突，这进一步坚定了列强的保留态度。1930年和1931年，中国内战的再次爆发凸显了政府权力的脆弱以及外国居民持续面临的不安全状况，这增加了列强对时机是否成熟进行任何根本性变革的疑虑。尽管如此，谈判仍在继续；到1931年夏天，英国和美国都与中国达成了相当程度的协议。然而，9 月，日本军队占领了满洲的沈阳。这一事件的悲剧意义很快显现出来：它比前几年的动荡更灾难性地削弱了中国政府的地位。因此，关于结束治外法权的讨论暂停，直至局势更加稳定之时。
在满洲诉诸武力并非日本政府政策改变的结果。内阁并未放弃 1929 年上台时所奉行的经济和外交政策；但这些政策的可接受性，进而政府自身的效力，已被各种事件削弱。日本恢复金本位制后不久，世界经济大萧条就开始了。物价下跌和市场萎缩对日本经济的影响，因日本最近更易受世界压力影响而加剧。日本也无法从美国或英国获得援助，因为它们同样面临经济危机。收入和就业的下降被广泛归咎于政府及其政策的缺陷。
民众反对情绪的增长极大地增强了军方的力量。现在，认为日本的生存依赖于加强武装力量和巩固其在中国的地位，而非与西方列强合作的观点获得了民众的广泛支持。因此，东京和满洲的高级军官准备采取革命性行动。1931年5月推翻政府的阴谋失败了。但9月18 —19日夜间对沈阳的占领，标志着日本进入军事主导时期。
20 世纪初，远东和太平洋地区的国际政治由西方列强主导。到 20 世纪 30 年代，那些列强充其量只是不情愿的帝国主义者。在中国，它们保留下来的特权主要是因为中国人无法解决内部问题。在南太平洋诸岛，它们继续承担行政责任仅仅反映出它们接受了关于 “落后”民族自治能力的普遍假设。在澳大利亚和新西兰，英国仍拥有的剩余权力是应这两个国家政府的要求保留的，它们不愿接受《威斯敏斯特法案》赋予它们取消对其主权限制的机会。
但曾经属于西方列强的角色如今正被日本承担。占领沈阳之后，日本完全征服了满洲并建立了伪满洲国。国际联盟进行干预，意图在为日本权利和利益提供保护的条件下恢复中国的主权，这遭到日本的愤怒反对，并导致日本退出该组织。这些行动进一步降低了远东地区的政治稳定性。由于国内政治环境使得日本无法撤军，它不可避免地扩大了侵略范围。为应对中国日益增长的敌意，日本通过军事行动和政治阴谋相结合的方式，巩固了其在内蒙古和中国东北各省的地位。1937年，北京附近中日军队的武装冲突引发了日本对中国的全面入侵。国民政府被迫西迁，在重庆建立了新首都；1940年，日本在南京扶植了一个傀儡政权。
然而，日本帝国主义成熟之际，正值重大国际冲突只能在全球范围内解决的时期。占领沈阳及其后果鼓励了意大利和德国同样无视世界舆论；日本与这两个国家都签订了条约。因此，日本对中国的政策是第二次世界大战的一个主要原因；其最终成败只能由那场战争的结果来决定。
CHAPTER XV
THE SOVIET UNION 1917-1939：
Two new factors: Nazis in Germany, Japanese in Manchuria
The second new factor was the conquest of Manchuria by the Japanese. This constituted a serious threat to Russia's military and strategic interests in the Far East. Being in no position at that moment to risk a military conflict, least of all on the Far Eastern borders, yet aware that any excessive conciliatoriness would merely whet the Japanese territorial appetite, the Soviet government compromised. It abandoned (through sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway in 1935 to Manchurian puppets of the Japanese) its claim, inherited from the tsars, to a special political position in the Manchurian region. At the same time, it adopted an attitude of uncom promising firmness and vigilance in defence of the state frontiers of Siberia, and also of Outer Mongolia, which had long been a virtual Soviet protectorate. From this moment on, down to the final defeat of Japan in the Pacific War, the threat posed by the presence of strong Japanese forces along the sensitive borders of Siberia and Mongolia would be a constant source of apprehension to the Soviet leaders and one never absent from their thoughts and calculations as they addressed themselves to the problems confronting them from the European side.
译文：
第二个新因素是日本对满洲的征服。这对苏联在远东的军事及战略利益构成了严重威胁。当时，苏联根本无力冒军事冲突的风险，尤其是在远东边境，然而它也明白，任何过度的妥协只会刺激日本的领土贪欲，于是苏联政府采取了折中的办法。它放弃了（1935年通过将中东铁路出售给日本扶植的满洲傀儡政权）从沙皇那里继承来的对满洲地区特殊政治地位的主张。与此同时，在保卫西伯利亚以及长期以来实际上处于苏联保护之下的外蒙古的国家边境方面，苏联采取了毫不妥协的坚定与警惕态度。从这一刻起，直至日本在太平洋战争中最终战败，日本强大的军事力量部署在西伯利亚和蒙古敏感边境所构成的威胁，一直让苏联领导人忧心忡忡，在他们应对来自欧洲方面的问题时，这一威胁始终萦绕在他们的脑海中，并影响着他们的决策考量。
CHAPTER XXIII
DIPLOMATIC HISTORY 1930-1939
Breakdown of international order in the Far East
The financial crisis in Britain coincided with the total breakdown of international order in the Far East. This order rested essentially on Japanese goodwill towards China and her Anglo-American sponsors. For, although the Nine Power Treaty of Washington had in 1922 bound its signatories to respect the political and territorial integrity of China, the Five Power Naval Disarmament Treaty, signed at the same conference, had, by fixing the battleship strength of America and Britain in a 5:5:3 ratio with Japan and prohibiting any fortified bases between Hawaii, Singapore and Japan, deprived the Anglo-Saxon powers of the naval power to intervene against Japanese aggression. The' incident' in Mukden, the capital of Southern Manchuria, on the night of 19 September 1931, which led the Japanese forces in that province, ostensibly there to protect the South Manchuria Railway, to occupy all of Manchuria and proclaim it an independent state under the name of Manchukuo, was organised, in fact, by a small group of influentially placed Japanese officers. But they were reacting against a combination of Chinese nationalist pressure designed to drive the Japanese from Manchuria, Anglo-American diplomatic pressure which had imposed at London in March 1930 a second naval disarmament treaty on Japan which they regarded as nationally humiliating, and a growth in civilian power in Japan which they believed to be undoing the independent status of the armed forces under the Japanese constitution . Their action caused the Japanese Cabinet to resign, after it had failed to control them. And the diplomatic pressure which was organised in Washington and at the League of Nations against Japan would probably have failed on this inability of the Japanese Cabinet to control the Kwantung Army, even if lack of force and divided counsels had not rendered it even more ineffective.
Japan and China
The Defence Requirements Committee judged Japan the closer in time to aggression against British interests, but Germany the greater threat to them in the long run. Their report led to a serious examination of the possibilities of an understanding with Japan, seemingly more rather than less belligerent as a result of her success in Manchuria. Japanese aggressiveness was fired in the winter of 1933 by the increasing evidence of Chinese willingness to turn to Europe for aid and assistance in making herself a modern power. T. V. Soong, the Chinese Finance Minister, was active in Europe and in Washington. The number of League of Nations advisory and assistance missions to China seemed on the increase. For modernisation of her armed forces, China turned to Germany, inviting Field-Marshal von Seeckt, architect of the German army after 1919, to advise on the development of an elite army; a German military mission and Italian and American air missions were active in training the Chinese armed forces. The Japanese authorities felt again the threat to then position in the Far East that a China modernised in her military forces, economically healthy and politically united, would constitute. On 17 April 1934 Eiji Amau, spokesman of the Japanese Foreign Ministry, issued a statement claiming a special position for Japan in the maintenance of peace in the Far East and proclaiming Japanese opposition to all foreign military and economic aid to China, whether bilateral or multilateral.